

Whisky-cured salmon with beetroot and blinis






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 10-12


Recommended by
7 people



Try curing your salmon at home for maximum flavour - it takes time but it's not at all difficult.






By James Martin


From James Martin's Food Map of Britain






Ingredients
For the salmon

1 side of salmon
150g/5½oz sea salt
150g/5½oz caster sugar
100ml/3½fl oz whisky

For the blinis

200g/7oz plain flour
7g sachet instant yeast
250ml/9fl oz milk
1 tsp salt
1 tsp sugar
2 free-range egg whites
50g/1¾oz butter

For the beetroot

200g/7oz redcurrant jelly
3 cloves
50ml/2fl oz whisky
100ml/3½fl oz red wine vinegar
50g/1¾oz Dijon mustard
10 beetroots, cooked and cut into cubes

To serve

250g/9oz crème fraîche
mustard cress or micro herbs, to garnish




Method


Lay long strips of cling film over a work surface. Lay the salmon on top and cover with the sea salt, sugar and whisky. Wrap the fish tightly in cling film and place in the fridge for 12 hours.


Wash the salmon to remove the salt rub, then slice it thinly.


To make the blinis, whisk together the flour, yeast, milk, salt and sugar. Set aside in a warm place to prove for an hour.


For the beetroot, heat the redcurrant jelly, cloves, whisky and vinegar in a saucepan. Simmer until the volume of liquid has reduced by half. Strain through a sieve.


Whisk in the mustard, then stir through the beetroot. Set aside until ready to serve.


For the blinis, whisk the egg whites in a separate bowl until stiff peaks form when the whisk is removed. When the batter has proved fold in the egg whites.


To cook the blinis, melt the butter in a large frying pan. Add a tablespoon of batter to the pan per blini and cook until golden-brown on the underside. Flip over and cook the other side. Remove the blini and place onto kitchen paper. Repeat until you have used all the batter. Keep the blinis warm until ready to serve.


To serve, place slices of salmon onto serving plates, with a few blinis, a spoonful of beetroot and a quenelle of crème fraîche. Garnish with mustard cress or micro herbs.



