

Whisky mustard crusted pork chop with sautéed potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
6 people



Give pork some added flavour and texture with a tasty whisky mustard crumb.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the whisky mustard pork chops

75ml/3fl oz whisky
25g/1oz honey
1 lemon, juice only
75g/3oz yellow mustard seeds
25g/1oz brown mustard seeds
50ml/2fl oz water
4 x pork loin chops, French trimmed, fat removed
75g/3oz dried breadcrumbs
1 tbsp olive oil
25g/1oz butter

For the sautéed potatoes

50g/2oz butter
3 tbsp olive oil
4 small potatoes, peeled, cut into thick slices
1 garlic clove, peeled, finely sliced
2 fresh sprigs rosemary, leaves only
salt and freshly ground black pepper
400g/14oz baby spinach leaves
2-3 tbsp water




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Heat the whisky, honey, lemon juice and water into a saucepan and heat until the honey dissolves.


Stir in the mustard seeds and cook for 1-2 minutes, or until most of the liquid has been absorbed.


Blend the mixture in a food processor until creamy (this will take a few minutes).


Sprinkle the breadcrumbs onto a plate.


Brush the pork chop on one side with the mustard mixture and dredge in the breadcrumbs. Spoon the remaining mustard into a small bowl and set aside.


Heat the olive oil and butter in an ovenproof frying pan until hot. Fry the pork chops for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until golden-brown on each side.


Transfer to the oven for 6-8 minutes, or until the pork is cooked through. Remove from the oven and set aside to rest.


For the sautéed potatoes, heat the olive oil and half of the butter in a frying pan until hot. Fry the potatoes for 4-5 minutes, or until golden-brown and tender. Add the garlic and rosemary and season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Heat the remaining butter in a frying pan, add the spinach and water and cook for 2-3 minutes, or until the spinach has wilted.


To serve, spoon some potatoes onto each of 4 serving plates, top with a pork chop and spoon some spinach alongside. Serve with the remaining mustard.



