

White chocolate brownies (blondies)




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
34 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Who said a brownie had to be brown? These white chocolate blondies are a great change and so delicious!






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the brownies

225g/8oz caster sugar
4 free-range eggs
225g/8oz butter, melted, plus extra for greasing
150g/5½oz plain flour, sifted
225g/8oz white chocolate, chopped
100g/3½oz macadamia nuts, chopped

For the frosting

75g/2¾oz butter
175g/6oz icing sugar
1 vanilla pod, split, seeds scraped out with a knife (the pod can be reserved for another recipe)
125g/4½oz crunchy peanut butter
50-75ml/2-4fl oz milk (optional)




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Grease a 20cm/8in square cake tin with butter.


For the brownies, in a bowl, beat together the sugar and eggs until pale and fluffy. Beat in the melted butter a little at a time, making sure each addition of butter is fully incorporated before adding the next.


Add the flour and carefully fold it into the mixture using a metal spoon.


Add the chopped white chocolate and macadamia nuts and carefully fold them into the mixture.


Spoon the brownie batter into the prepared cake tin and shake gently until level. Transfer the tin to the oven and bake for 30-35 minutes, or until a skewer inserted into the centre of the brownies comes out clean. Set aside to cool.


Meanwhile, for the frosting, in a mixing bowl, whisk together the butter, icing sugar and vanilla seeds using an electric whisk until smooth and well combined.


Add the peanut butter and whisk until the mixture is smooth and well combined. (Add a little milk, if using, to loosen the mixture, as necessary).


Once the white chocolate brownies have cooled, spread over the peanut butter frosting in an even layer. Cut the brownies into squares, carefully remove them from the tin and serve on a large serving plate.



