

Breaded chicken escalope, caper sauce, sautéed courgettes and cherry tomatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
4 people







By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients

4 corn-fed chicken breasts, boneless and skinless
salt and freshly ground black pepper
75g/3oz plain flour
2 free-range eggs
60g/2½oz Japanese breadcrumbs

For the caper sauce

2 tbsp olive oil
50g/2oz butter
1 banana shallot, finely diced
1 garlic clove, finely diced
75g/3oz gherkins, finely diced
4 tbsp capers, rinsed
3 tbsp roughly chopped flatleaf parsley

For the courgettes

2 tbsp olive oil
50g/2oz butter
2-3 large courgettes, cut into cubes
2 sprigs rosemary, finely chopped
175g/6oz cherry tomatoes




Method


For the chicken escalopes, place a chicken breast onto a cling film-lined board and cover with cling film. Using a meat hammer or rolling pin, bash the chicken until it is just 5mm thick.


Remove from the cling film and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Repeat with the remaining chicken.


Scatter the flour over a plate along with salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste. Place the eggs in a bowl and lightly beat, and tip the breadcrumbs onto another plate. Dust each chicken breast in the flour, then dip in the egg and finally coat each side with the breadcrumbs.


For the caper sauce, heat the olive oil and butter in a large frying pan, then add the chicken breasts, one at a time, and fry until golden-brown and completely cooked through (about 2 minutes on each side). Remove with a fish slice and drain on several layers of kitchen paper.


Add the shallots and garlic to the pan and fry for one minute. Add the gherkins and capers and cook for a further minute. Season with salt and black pepper, to taste, and add the parsley.


For the courgettes, heat the olive oil and butter in a pan and add the courgettes and rosemary. Sauté for 3-4 minutes until just turning golden-brown and starting to soften. Add the tomatoes and cook for a further two minutes. Season with salt and freshly ground black black pepper, to taste.


Serve the chicken with the caper sauce spooned over and a pile of courgettes and tomatoes on the side.



