

Wild mushroom quiche with smoked salmon salad



Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6-8


Recommended by
3 people



Wild mushrooms are full of flavour and make a wonderful filling for the rich buttery pastry in James Martin's quiche.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the shortcrust pastry

350g/12oz plain flour, plus extra for dusting
½ tsp salt
100g/3½oz butter, cubed
75g/2½oz lard, cubed

For the wild mushroom quiche

1 tbsp olive oil
300g/10½oz wild mushrooms, cleaned
5 free-range eggs, beaten
100ml/3½fl oz whole milk
200ml/7fl oz double cream
salt and black pepper
200g/7oz mature English cheddar, grated
2 thyme sprigs, leaves picked

For the smoked salmon salad

8 spring onions, trimmed and cut into two
5 tbsp olive oil
2 fillets hot smoked salmon, skin removed and flesh flaked
2 handfuls fresh watercress
1 tsp Dijon mustard
3 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp white wine vinegar




Method


For the shortcrust pastry, put the flour and salt in a large bowl and add the cubes of butter and lard.


Use your fingertips to rub the butter and lard into the flour until you have a mixture that resembles coarse breadcrumbs with no large lumps of butter or lard remaining. Try to work quickly so that it does not become greasy.


Measure out eight tablespoons of cold water. Using a knife, stir in just enough of the cold water to bind the dough together.


Wrap the dough in cling film and chill in the fridge for 10-15 minutes before using.


Alternatively use a food processor. Put the flour, butter and salt in the food processor and pulse until the fat is rubbed into the flour. With the motor running, gradually add the water through the funnel until the dough comes together. Only add enough water to bind it and then stop. Wrap the dough in cling film as before and chill for 30 minutes before using.


Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5.


Roll out the pastry on a lightly floured work surface to the thickness of a pound coin. Use the rolling pin to help you lift it into a 22cm/8½in deep flan tin. Let the edges overhang (these will be trimmed later) and place in the fridge to chill for at least 15 minutes.


Line the pastry case with baking parchment and fill it with baking beans. Place on a baking tray and bake for 15-20 minutes, or until the pastry is a very light golden-brown. Remove the baking beans and parchment, and return to the oven for another five minutes to cook the base. Remove and reduce oven temperature to 160C/325F/Gas 3.


For the wild mushroom quiche, heat the oil in a large frying pan and cook the mushrooms for a minute. In a jug, combine the eggs, milk and cream and season with salt and pepper.


Sprinkle the cheese into the pastry case, then add the mushrooms and pour over the egg mix. Sprinkle the thyme leaves over the top. Bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the filling is set.


Remove from the oven and set aside to cool. When cool enough to handle, trim the pastry edges.


For the smoked salmon salad, heat a griddle pan and toss the spring onions in two tablespoons of olive oil. Griddle the spring onions for two minutes each side, or until they have charred.


Place the spring onions in a large bowl with the salmon and watercress.


In a small bowl, add the mustard, vinegar and the remaining three tablespoons of olive oil. Whisk until combined. Just before serving, pour the dressing over the salad and mix.


Serve the quiche in slices with the smoked salmon salad.




Recipe Tips
Replace the lard with solid vegetable fat to make a delicious vegetarian quiche.

