

Wobbly apricot tart




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
10 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




The pastry and marzipan melt over the apricot halves to make a wobbly top for this sweet, and simply delicious, fruit tart.






By Mary Berry


From The Great British Bake Off






Ingredients
For the pastry

225g/8oz plain flour, plus extra for dusting
100g/3½oz icing sugar
100g/3½oz butter, cubed
1 free-range egg

For the filling

375g/13oz almond paste or marzipan
2 x 400g/14oz cans halved apricots in natural juice

To serve

icing sugar
single cream or crème fraîche




Method


For the pastry put the flour, icing sugar and butter into a food processor. Blend until it resembles breadcrumbs. Add the egg and mix until the mixture holds together. Tip onto a floured work surface and gather the dough into a ball. Wrap in cling film and chill in the fridge for approximately 15 minutes.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6 and place a baking tray on the middle shelf to heat. Line the base and sides of a 23cm/9in round deep fluted tin.


Take two-thirds of the chilled pastry from the fridge. Roll it out thinly to make a circle large enough to line the base and sides of the tin. Use a rolling pin to lift the pastry into the tin.


Use a small ball of excess pastry to press the rolled out pastry into the base and sides of the fluted tin (this will help prevent holes forming in the pastry). Ensure the tin is fully lined, with no holes.


Coarsely grate or finely chop the almond paste or marzipan and sprinkle it over the base of the tart


Drain the apricots thoroughly and pat dry with kitchen paper. Arrange the apricots over the base of the tart cut side down.


Roll out the remaining pastry to form the lid. Dampen the edge of the pastry base in the tin. Lift the pastry lid over the top of the fruit and press the two layers of pastry together around the edge of the tin, patching the edges if necessary.


Place the tart on the preheated baking tray and bake in the centre of the oven for approximately 30-35 minutes, or until pale golden-brown.


To serve, dust with icing sugar and serve with crème fraîche or cream.



