

Yorkshire puddings with onion gravy



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes 12 large puddings


Recommended by
4 people



James Martin uses an all-milk batter and lots of eggs to make rich, soft puddings. Serve with lashings of gravy.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a 12 hole deep muffin tin.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the Yorkshire puddings

225g/8oz plain flour
8 free-range eggs
500ml/18fl oz whole milk
salt and freshly ground black pepper
75g/2¾oz beef dripping

For the onion gravy

250ml/9fl oz red wine
1 litre/1¾ pints fresh beef or veal stock
50g/1¾oz butter
3 onions, thinly sliced
3 sprigs thyme, leaves picked
50ml/1¾fl oz brandy




Method


For the Yorkshire puddings, place the flour into a bowl, whisk in the eggs and milk until as smooth as possible then season with salt and black pepper.


Pour into a jug and place in the fridge to rest, preferably overnight.


Heat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7.


Place a 12 hole deep muffin tin into the oven and leave for five minutes, then add a little beef dripping into each of the holes and leave to heat for 5-10 minutes, or until smoking hot.


Take the batter from the fridge and whisk one more time. Carefully pour the batter into the tins and bake for 10-15 minutes until golden-brown and risen around the edges.


For the onion gravy, place the red wine into a wide sauté pan and heat until reduced by half. Add the stock and cook over a very low heat until reduced by half again.


Meanwhile, heat a large pan until hot then add the butter, sliced onions and thyme leaves and cook for 12-15 minutes, or until soft and lightly golden-brown.


Add the brandy and flambé to burn off the alcohol (CAUTION: Keep your face and hair away from the flames. Do not leave unattended.). Add the reduced stock and bring to the boil.


Reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for another five minutes then season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


To serve, pour the onion gravy over the warm Yorkshire puddings.



