

Warm salad of broad bean, mangetout, peas, roasted beetroot and mozzarella




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Sweet roast beetroot and shallots mixed with seasonal veg warmed in a sharp sour-sweet dressing. Add mozzarella and a final blue cheese dressing for heaven on a plate.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the warm salad

4 heritage beetroots
2 shallots
2 tbsp rapeseed oil
500g/1lb 2oz broad beans, podded and outer skin removed
200g/7oz fresh peas, podded
200g/7oz mangetout, thinly sliced
2 balls buffalo mozzarella, torn
few basil leaves, to garnish

For the mustard and honey dressing

30g/1oz French dressing
30g/1oz honey
30g/1oz white balsamic vinegar
pinch salt
squeeze lemon juice

For the blue cheese dressing

1 garlic clove, crushed
100g/3½oz blue cheese
50g/1¾oz buttermilk
40g/1½oz crème fraîche
40g/1½oz mayonnaise
dash worcestershire sauce (omit if cooking for vegetarians)
dash Tabasco




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Put the beetroots and shallots, unpeeled, on a sheet of foil and drizzle with the oil. Wrap them up and seal to make a parcel and bake in the oven for 40-50 minutes, or until soft.


Remove from the oven and allow to cool. Once cool, peel the beetroots and shallots and cut into quarters.


Make the mustard and honey dressing by blending all the ingredients together in a bowl or blender until smooth.


Blanch the broad beans in boiling water for a couple of minutes and then drain.


Heat a large frying pan and add the broad beans, peas and mangetout. Add the mustard and honey dressing to the pan and cook for a couple of minutes.


Make the blue cheese dressing by blending all the ingredients together in a blender until smooth.


Place the beans, mangetout and peas in a large serving bowl.


Scatter over the pieces of torn mozzarella, shallots and beetroot.


Dress the salad with a little of the blue cheese dressing, garnish with a few torn basil leaves and serve.



