

Bulgur wheat salad with beetroot, honey and goats' cheese




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 2-3


Recommended by
5 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This luxurious salad makes a great light lunch or summer supper for the family. Serve with warm flatbreads.

  This salad with flatbreads when served as three portions provides 751 kcal, 25g protein, 112g carbohydrate (of which 20g sugars), 23g fat (of which 8g saturates), 10g fibre and 2.2g salt per portion.






By Justine Pattison






Ingredients

1 large parsnip, peeled and cut into short batons
2 carrots, peeled and cut into short batons
3 tbsp olive oil
100g/3½oz bulgur wheat, rinsed
1 tbsp clear honey
½-1 tsp dried chilli flakes, to taste
½ lemon, juice only
25g/1oz chopped fresh flatleaf parsley
150g/5oz vacuum-packed cooked beetroot, drained, cubed
100g/3½oz soft goats' cheese, finely chopped
salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 warm flatbreads, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6. Line a baking tray or small roasting tin with aluminium foil.


Put the parsnips and carrots on the baking tray and drizzle over 1 tablespoon of the oil. Season with salt and pepper and roast for 18-20 minutes.


Meanwhile, half-fill a saucepan with water and bring to the boil. Add the bulgur and cook for 6-8 minutes, or until almost tender.


Drizzle the roasted vegetables with the honey and sprinkle with the chilli flakes, turning to coat all over. Return to the oven for a further 10 minutes, or until golden-brown and sticky.


Drain the bulgur and transfer to a large bowl. Stir in the roasted vegetables. Add the lemon juice and most of the parsley and stir again. Season with salt and pepper.


Spoon the bulgur wheat salad onto a serving platter. Sprinkle over the beetroot and goats' cheese. Garnish with the remaining parsley and oil. Serve with flatbreads.




Recipe Tips
If you can’t find vaccum-packed cooked beetroot, use baby beetroot from a jar, but rinse it well under cold water to remove some of the vinegar taste.

