

Tandoori chicken lollipop drumsticks with raita dip






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4 as a main or 6 as a starter



These spiced chicken bites make delicious meaty canapés – pass them around at a party and watch them disappear.






By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients
For the drumsticks

12 chicken drumsticks (leg and thigh meat), skin removed
300ml/10½fl oz plain yoghurt
1 tsp garam masala
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tbsp chilli powder
½ tsp ground turmeric
½ tsp ground cinnamon
5cm/2in piece fresh root ginger, skin on, finely grated
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
1 lemon, juice only

For the raita

1 green chilli, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
½ cucumber, skin and seeds removed, finely diced
½ tsp ground cumin
2 tbsp finely chopped fresh mint leaves
2 tbsp finely chopped fresh coriander leaves
200ml/7fl oz plain yoghurt
1 lime, juice only
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


For the drumsticks, using the heel of a heavy knife, chop through the top of the chicken drumsticks at the joint, to take the knuckle off.


Turn each drumstick upside-down and chop the bottom of the bone off, then push the meat down towards the bottom of the bone so that it looks like a little ball at the bottom of the drumstick. Using a pair of tweezers, pull the tendons from the bone and discard. Set the drumsticks aside.


In a bowl, stir 100ml/3½fl oz of the yoghurt with all of the remaining drumstick ingredients until well combined. Add the remaining yoghurt and mix through.


Add the drumsticks to the yoghurt marinade and wiggle them around until they are completely coated in the marinade. Cover the bowl with cling film and chill in the fridge for at least 4 hours, or overnight.


When the drumsticks have marinated, preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6.


Remove the drumsticks from the marinade, shaking off any excess. Sit them bone upright on a baking tray, then roast in the oven for 10-15 minutes, or until the marinade has browned and the chicken is cooked through at its thickest part and no trace of pink remains.


Meanwhile, for the raita, in a bowl, mix together the chilli, garlic and cucumber.


Stir in the cumin, mint and coriander.


Add the yoghurt and lime juice, stir well, and season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Chill in the fridge until ready to serve.


To serve, pile the drumsticks onto a large serving plate, bones facing upwards. Spoon the raita into a bowl and place it alongside for everyone to serve themselves.



