

Carpaccio of beef with pickled baby beetroots and salsa verde



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2-3


Recommended by
1 person



A great Italian starter you can make ahead of a party or for a special dinner for two.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the carpaccio of beef

300g/10½oz beef fillet, trimmed
1 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the pickled beetroots and shallots

200g/7oz caster sugar
200ml/7fl oz white wine vinegar
pinch salt
1 bunch baby heritage beetroots, sliced on a mandoline
1 banana shallot, finely chopped

For the salsa verde

3 tbsp roughly chopped fresh mint
3 tbsp torn fresh basil
3 tbsp roughly chopped flat leaf parsley
1 shallot, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
1 unwaxed lemon, zest only
2 tbsp capers, drained
4 anchovies, roughly chopped
3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil

To serve

½ small loaf sourdough, sliced
1 garlic clove, peeled and left whole
2 tbsp olive oil
10g/½oz bull's blood leaves
5g baby bull's blood leaves
½ bunch watercress
½ red onion, finely diced
1-2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil




Method


For the beef, season the beef fillet with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Heat a frying pan until smoking, add the olive oil and sear the beef for 2-3 minutes on all sides, until golden-brown.


Remove the beef from the pan and cover in cling film and roll into a barrel shape, twisting tightly at both ends to seal. Refrigerate for 1 hour, or until firm.


For the pickles, put the sugar, vinegar, salt and 400ml/14fl oz water into a non-reactive pan and bring to the boil. Pour half the pickling liquor into a separate pan. Add the beetroot to one pan and the shallot to the other, then remove from the heat and set aside to cool. Drain well.


For the salsa verde, put all the ingredients in a pestle and mortar and pound until you have a thick paste.


Heat a griddle pan until hot. Rub the sliced sourdough with the garlic and drizzle with some of the olive oil. Toast the bread in the pan for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until charred.


To serve, slice the beef and lay it on a large serving plate in a fan shape. Dot salsa verde around the plate and garnish with the bull's blood and watercress leaves and red onion. Drizzle with the extra virgin olive oil and serve with the pickles and bread.



