

Tandoori lamb wrap




Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 5


Recommended by
9 people



These wraps are the perfect grab-and-go meal. You can also use seasoned yoghurt and some fresh chopped coriander and mint instead of the chutney.






By Anjum Anand


From Indian Food Made Easy






Ingredients
For the marinade

150ml/5fl oz Greek-style yoghurt
½ small onion, roughly chopped
1 garlic clove, peeled and chopped
2.5cm/1in piece fresh ginger, peeled and chopped
2 tsp each garam masala and ground cumin
1 tsp ground coriander
½ tsp ground fennel seeds
¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
1 tbsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp fresh coriander leaves
½ tsp red chilli powder, or to taste
2 tsp lemon juice
1 tsp salt, or to taste

For the lamb

400g/14oz lamb (leg meat is ideal), bones removed, cut into 2cm/1in cubes and pierced with a fork
2 tbsp melted butter, for basting

To serve

5 ready-made flour tortillas, wrapped in foil and placed in the oven for the last five minutes of cooking
½ onion, finely sliced
2 tomatoes, finely sliced
1 Little Gem lettuce, finely sliced
100ml/3½fl oz green chutney, mixed with 3 tbsp yoghurt, to serve
You'll need ten wooden skewers, soaked in water for half an hour




Method


Place all the marinade ingredients into a food processor and blend until smooth. Pour into a large bowl and stir in the lamb cubes. Mix well and leave to marinate in the fridge for as long as possible, preferably overnight. Bring back to room temperature an hour before cooking.


Preheat the grill to medium. Thread the lamb cubes onto the skewers leaving a space between each piece and place under the grill. Cook for around 5-6 minutes, turning halfway through cooking, until tender. Alternatively, cook in an oven preheated to 200C/400F/Gas 6 for eight minutes. Baste with the melted butter and cook for another minute or two for slightly pink meat, or longer if you want the lamb well done.


Divide the lamb pieces into five equal portions and place each portion in the centre of a warmed tortilla. Top with a handful of the sliced vegetables and a spoonful of chutney. Roll up and serve.



