

Cauliflower couscous with kale and feta fritters and tomato chutney




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
12 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




A vegetarian and gluten-free recipe using finely chopped cauliflower in place of couscous.

  This meal provides 445 kcal, 19g protein, 39g carbohydrate (of which 25g sugars), 24g fat (of which 6g saturates), 13g fibre and 0.9g salt per portion.






By Henry Dimbleby


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the fresh tomato and ginger chutney

30ml/1fl oz olive oil
60g/2¼oz fresh ginger, peeled and cut into very fine strips
400g/14oz whole cherry tomatoes
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tbsp maple syrup

For the cauliflower as couscous

1 cauliflower
1 tbsp olive oil
pinch gluten-free curry powder
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp maple syrup
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 apple, peeled, cored, finely chopped
1 bunch spring onions, finely chopped
1 tbsp chopped fresh mint
1 tbsp chopped fresh coriander

For the kale and feta spiced fritters

250g/9oz kale, washed and leaves separated
100g/3½oz gram flour
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground paprika
½ tsp turmeric
salt and freshly ground black pepper
150ml/5½fl oz milk
75g/2½oz feta cheese, crumbled
2 tbsp olive oil




Method


For the fresh tomato and ginger chutney, heat the oil in a large pan, add the ginger, and cook for two minutes over a medium heat.


Add the tomatoes and maple syrup, season with salt and pepper and let them soften for five minutes.


Set aside until ready to serve, warm or cold.


For the cauliflower as couscous, core the cauliflower and divide it into florets. Chop finely, either by hand or in a food processor.


Heat the oil in a large frying pan or wok. Add the curry powder and stir quickly, then add the chopped cauliflower, vinegar and maple syrup. Season well with salt and pepper. Stir quickly over a medium heat for five minutes until the cauliflower is just tender.


For the kale and feta spiced fritters, bring a large pan of salted water to the boil and cook the kale leaves for two minutes, or until tender, then drain and refresh under cold running water. Squeeze out any excess moisture and chop the leaves roughly.


Sift the gram flour and spices into a large bowl along and add a pinch of salt. Add the milk slowly, stirring all the time to make a thick batter. Stir in the crumbled feta, followed by the chopped kale. Season well with salt and pepper.


Heat the oil in a non-stick frying pan and drop in tablespoons of the batter to make small fritters. Cook for a few minutes on each side.


To serve, place the ‘couscous’ in a bowl and stir through the apple, spring onions and fresh herbs. Stack the fritters on each serving plate with a little chutney between each layer.




Recipe Tips
Any leftover chutney will keep in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 12 weeks.

