

Chargrilled tuna with roast red onion, tomato and coriander vinaigrette and shoestring potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
4 people







By Paul Rankin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the salad

6 plum tomatoes, peeled, cut into quarters
2 red onions, roughly sliced
2 tbsp light olive oil
1 tsp coriander seeds, crushed
½ tsp salt
125ml/4½fl oz extra virgin olive oil
2 tbsp lemon juice

For the tuna

4 x 175g/6oz tuna steaks
pinch salt
1 tbsp coriander seeds, crushed
1 tbsp black peppercorns, cracked
2 tbsp light olive oil

For the shoestring potatoes

2 large baking potatoes, finely sliced into strips
salt and freshly ground black pepper

to serve

2 tbsp fresh coriander, roughly chopped
125g/4½oz rocket leaves




Method


Preheat the grill to its highest setting.


Place the tomatoes, red onion, light olive oil, coriander seeds, and salt into a bowl and mix together gently.


Transfer the tomato mixture onto a baking sheet and place under the grlll for 10-12 minutes, until just turning golden-brown, turning occasionally.


Transfer the grilled tomato mixture to a large bowl and add the extra virgin olive oil and lemon juice. Mix gently to combine and coat, then set aside.


For the tuna, preheat a griddle pan until hot.


Season the tuna lightly with salt.


Mix the crushed coriander seeds and peppercorns together and sprinkle evenly onto a plate. Press the tuna steaks onto the spice mixture to evenly coat on both sides, then drizzle with the olive oil.


Place the tuna steaks onto the griddle pan and cook for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until cooked to your liking.


For the shoestring potatoes, preheat a deep fat fryer to 190C. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Place the potato strips into a bowl of cold water and soak for five minutes, then remove from the water and pat dry with kitchen paper.


Place the potatoes into the deep fat fryer and cook for 2-3 minutes, or until golden and crisp. Carefully remove with a slotted spoon and drain onto kitchen paper. Season, to taste, with salt and black pepper.


To serve, add the fresh coriander to the tomato and onion mixture. Spoon the tomato and onion mixture onto warmed plates, then place a pile of rocket leaves in the centre of each plate.


Top each pile of rocket with a tuna steak, and place a large spoonful of shoestring potatoes on top.



