

Chashu pork ramen






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4



This ramen looks effortless in its assembly, but the key to its success is the slow-cooked intensely savoury Japanese-style stock coupled with full-flavoured braised pork and overnight marinated eggs.






By The Hairy Bikers


From The Hairy Bikers' Asian Adventure






Ingredients

750g/1lb 10oz ramen noodles (alternatively use udon noodles)
drizzle sesame oil
2.5 litres/4½ pints toridashi stock
30g/1oz fresh root ginger, cut into 4 thick slices
2 garlic cloves, cut into slithers
10 fresh shiitake mushrooms, cut into slithers
1 carrot, cut into matchsticks
100g/3½oz shimeji mushrooms
200g/7oz soya beansprouts (or beansprouts)
50g/1¾oz sliced bamboo shoots
100g/3½oz enoki mushrooms
200g/7oz choi sum, ends trimmed and cut in half
500g/1lb 2oz chashu pork, about 16 slices
4 spring onion, cut on the diagonal
1 long red chilli, finely sliced on a diagonal
4 whole tomago eggs, halved

To serve (optional)

Japanese shop-bought chilli oil
shichimi togarashi (Japanese seven-spice seasoning)
dried tuna flakes




Method


Cook the noodles following the instructions on the packet. Once cooked, drain and drizzle with a little sesame oil to stop the noodles from sticking.


Heat the stock in a large pan with the ginger, garlic, shiitake mushrooms and carrots.


Simmer for 5-8 minutes. Add the shimeji mushrooms.


Carefully arrange the warm noodles, beansprouts, bamboo shoots, enoki mushrooms, choi sum and sliced pork in four large serving bowls.


Carefully pour the stock over the pork and vegetables with a ladle. Top with the spring onions and sliced chilli.


Carefully half the eggs and place on the top of each serving.


Serve at once with a drizzle of chilli oil, a sprinkling of shichimi togarashi (Japanese seven-spice seasoning) and a flourish of dried tuna flakes (if liked).




Recipe Tips
If you don’t have any chashu pork, you could substitute it with leftover roast pork.

