

Mediterranean chicken with potatoes




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
9 people



This easy chicken recipe is a great meal to have bubbling away on the stove for a simple supper with friends or a family-friendly mid-week meal. This is designed to be a low cost recipe.

  This recipe is perfect for batch cooking, cook the chicken sauce and divide it into portions and pop in the freezer, it will keep in the freezer for 2 months. You can cook the potatoes while you reheat the sauce.






By Jason Atherton


From Great British Budget Menu






Ingredients

1 tbsp olive oil
400–500g/14oz-1lb 2oz chicken thighs, skin on and bone in
1 onion, diced
1 carrot, finely diced
2 garlic cloves, sliced
400g tin tomatoes
250ml/9fl oz chicken stock
1 tsp dried mixed herbs
600g/1lb 5oz potatoes, cut into bite-sized pieces
salt and pepper




Method


Heat a large saucepan over a medium heat. Add the oil and, once hot, add the chicken thighs, skin side down. Brown the chicken on each side for 3-4 minutes, or until nicely golden-brown all over. Remove the thighs from the pan and set to one side.


Add the onion and carrot with a pinch of salt to the saucepan and stir over the heat. Fry for 6-7 minutes, or until the onions are soft and translucent. Add the garlic and continue to cook for two more minutes.


Add the browned chicken back to the pan along with any juices from the meat. Pour over the tomatoes, stock and mixed herbs and mix well to make sure everything is evenly distributed. Season with a little salt and pepper, cover with a lid and gently simmer for 20 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through and the sauce thickened slightly.


Meanwhile boil the potatoes in a saucepan of boiling water for 10-12 minutes, or until tender and cooked through. Drain and serve alongside the cooked chicken.




Recipe Tips
In May 2013 this recipe was costed at £3.59 at Asda, £2.45 at Tesco and £3.88 at Sainsbury’s.
  This recipe is designed to be made in conjunction with a
low-cost store-cupboard.

