

Chicken katsu curry




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4-6


Recommended by
44 people



A Japanese dish of crisp fried chicken in a rich curry sauce. Simon Rimmer's version has less fat but all the flavour of the original.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the sauce

1 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp coriander seeds
1 tsp fennel seeds
1 tsp fenugreek seeds
2 cardamom pods
2 tbsp vegetable oil
2 onions, sliced
2 garlic cloves, sliced
2 small red bird’s-eye chillies
1 x 400g/14oz tin chopped tomatoes
2.5cm/1in piece root ginger, peeled, grated
1 tbsp ground turmeric
250ml/9fl oz chicken stock
1 tbsp honey
1 tbsp soy sauce

For the katsu curry

150g/5½oz plain flour, seasoned with salt and freshly ground black pepper
200g/7oz Japanese panko breadcrumbs
2 free-range eggs
4 chicken breasts, cut into strips
4 tbsp vegetable oil
3 carrots, sliced
2 spring onions, chopped
cooked basmati rice, to serve




Method


For the sauce, fry the spices in a dry frying pan for 2-3 minutes, then grind to a powder in a mortar and pestle.


Heat the oil in the same frying pan used to the fry the spices and fry the onions for 8-10 minutes, or until golden-brown. Add the garlic, chilli, chopped tomatoes, ginger and turmeric.


Bring the mixture to the boil, then add the stock and simmer for 25 minutes.


Leave to cool slightly, then blend the mixture until smooth, then stir in the honey and soy sauce. Keep warm.


Meanwhile, for the katsu curry, sprinkle the flour and breadcrumbs onto separate plates. Beat the eggs in a bowl.


Dredge the chicken pieces in the flour, then dip in the egg and coat in the breadcrumbs, shaking off any excess.


Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat and fry the chicken pieces for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until golden-brown. Remove from the pan and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


Meanwhile, cook the sliced carrots in a pan of boiling water for 4-5 minutes, or until tender. Drain.


To serve, stir the cooked carrots and spring onions into the curry sauce. Spoon the cooked rice onto serving plates, spoon over some sauce and top with the fried chicken pieces.



