

Chicken nuggets with smoked paprika and anchovy mayo




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Makes 12-16


Recommended by
1 person



These homemade chicken nuggets are posh people-pleasers. Serve as a moreish canapé at your next party.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a food processor.






By Tom Kerridge


From Series 3






Ingredients
For the mayo

3 free-range egg yolks
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
1 lemon, juice only
10 salted anchovy fillets
1 tbsp smoked paprika
500ml/18fl oz vegetable oil

For the chicken nuggets

vegetable or sunflower oil, for deep-frying
200g/7oz semolina flour, plus extra for dusting
100g/3½oz tapioca flour (available online or from health-food specialists)
½ tsp bicarbonate of soda
330ml/11fl oz sparkling water
4 skinless chicken breasts, cut into nugget-sized pieces
pinch cayenne pepper
pinch sea salt flakes




Method


For the mayo, blend the egg yolks, white wine vinegar, Dijon mustard, lemon juice, anchovy fillets and paprika to a smooth paste in a food processor.


With the motor still running, gradually add the oil in a thin stream, until the mixture thickens to a smooth mayonnaise.


For the chicken nuggets, heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer to 180C/350F. Alternatively, heat the oil in a deep, heavy-based frying pan until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden-brown when dropped into it. (CAUTION: Hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


In a large bowl, mix together the flours and the bicarbonate of soda.


Gradually pour in the sparkling water in a thin stream, whisking well until the mixture comes together as a loose, smooth batter.


Sprinkle a little semolina flour onto a plate. Dust the chicken pieces in the flour, then dip them into the batter.


Carefully lower the chicken nuggets into the hot oil, in batches if necessary, and fry until the batter turns crisp and golden-brown, and the nuggets float to the surface of the oil (about 3-4 minutes). Remove from the oil using a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper. Just before serving, dust the chicken nuggets with the cayenne pepper and sprinkle over the sea salt flakes.


To serve, place equal amounts of chicken nuggets into serving bowls with a dollop of mayo alongside.



