

Chicken and butter bean casserole with basmati rice




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4-6


Recommended by
21 people



Whip up a hearty dish of chicken and beans to keep the whole family happy. Do tweak the recipe to suit your veg stocks.

  This meal, if served as six portions, provides 503kcal, 46g protein, 59g carbohydrate (of which 14.5g sugars), 7g fat (of which 2g saturates), 9g fibre and 1.6g salt per portion.





By Tana Ramsay


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients

drizzle of olive oil
4 red onions, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, crushed
2 celery sticks, finely sliced
1 red pepper, seeded, finely sliced
2 leeks, finely sliced
6 portabellini mushrooms (or any large flat mushrooms)
1.75 litres/3 pints chicken stock
2 tbsp soy sauce
1 x tin 400g/14oz canned chopped tomatoes
2 carrots, finely chopped
1 x tin 400g/14oz butter beans, rinsed and drained
10 chicken thighs, on the bone, skin removed

For the rice

water
285g/10oz basmati rice




Method


Heat the olive oil in a large heavy-bottomed saucepan. Add the onions and garlic and fry gently until softened. Add the celery, red pepper, leeks and mushrooms, gently stirring together.


Add the stock, soy sauce and tomatoes and bring to the boil then turn down to a gentle simmer. Add the carrots, butter beans and the whole chicken thighs and leave all to simmer gently for approximately one hour.


To make the rice, bring to the boil a pan of water seasoned with a pinch of salt. Add the rice and cook according to packet instructions.


Take out one of the chicken thighs and gently break it open. Check that the meat is all thoroughly cooked (the meat will be white, not still pink). When cooked, remove the chicken thighs from saucepan and remove the bone. The chicken should literally fall off the bone. If desired, cut into bite-sized pieces and return to the pan.


Drain the rice and place into bowls. To serve, generously ladle casserole onto bowls of rice.



