

Tea-smoked trout with bashed chive potatoes and tomato salsa



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
1 person







By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the tea-smoked trout

100g/4oz Thai jasmine rice
4 tbsp jasmine tea
6 tbsp demerara sugar
2 whole trout, filleted
oil, for greasing

For the bashed chive potatoes

300g/11oz new potatoes, scrubbed and cut into chunks
50g/2oz butter
salt and freshly ground black pepper
handful fresh chives, roughly chopped

For the tomato salsa

50ml/2fl oz extra virgin olive oil
1 shallot, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
2 tomatoes, skins and seeds removed, chopped
½ lemon, juice only
2 tbsp finely chopped fresh chives
1 tbsp finely chopped fresh tarragon

For the rocket salad

large handful rocket
2 tbsp flatleaf parsley, leaves only
1 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


For the tea-smoked trout, place a piece of foil in the bottom of a wok. Place the rice, tea and sugar onto the foil and cover with a lid. Place over a medium heat for 3-4 minutes, or until the tea starts to smoke (CAUTION: tea-smoking generates a lot of smoke. Cook in a well ventilated area.)


Place the trout fillets onto an oiled piece of foil in a steamer and set in the wok. Place a lid on the steamer and cook for 4-5 minutes, or until the trout is just cooked through and smoked.


Meanwhile, for the bashed chive potatoes, place the potatoes into a pan, cover with water and bring to the boil. Simmer for ten minutes, or until just tender. Drain and return to the pan with the butter. Crush lightly with the back of a fork, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and stir in the chives.


For the tomato salsa, gently heat half the olive oil, the shallot, garlic and tomatoes in a pan for 1-2 minutes, or until just warmed through.


Remove from the heat and add the remaining olive oil, the lemon juice, chives and tarragon.


For the rocket salad, place the rocket and parsley into a bowl. Drizzle over the olive oil, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and mix well.


To serve, place two trout fillets onto each of two serving plates with the bashed chive potatoes and rocket salad. Drizzle over the tomato salsa.



