

Tempura vegetables with yuzu dressing



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




The juice of the Japanese citrus fruit yuzu adds zing to the mayo-style dressing served here. A neat talking point as you hand round crunchy deep-fried vegetables with a delightful dip at your party.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need a deep-fat fryer for this recipe.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the tempura vegetables

50g/1¾ plain flour
50g/1¾ cornflour
pinch salt
150ml/5fl oz sparkling water
1 courgette, cut into 8cm/3¾in batons
100g/3½oz purple sprouting broccoli, cut into florets
1 red onion, peeled and cut into petals
100g/3½oz mangetout
1 carrot, cut into chunks and blanched

For the yuzu dressing

4 free-range egg yolks
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
500ml/18fl oz rapeseed or light olive oil
1-2 tsp yuzu juice, to taste
2 tbsp chilli dipping sauce
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

4 spring onions, thinly sliced
1 red chilli, cut into julienne
2 tbsp coriander cress




Method


For the tempura vegetables, heat a deep fat fryer to 180C/350F. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous do not leave unattended.)


Mix the flour, cornflour and salt in a bowl. Whisk in enough sparkling water to form a smooth batter (you may not need all of the water).


Dip the vegetables into the batter and carefully lower into the hot oil. Fry for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until crisp and golden-brown on both sides. Remove from the pan using a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on a plate lined with kitchen paper.


For the yuzu dressing, place the egg yolks, vinegar and mustard into a food processor. Blend to combine then, with the motor still running, gradually add the oil.


Continue blending until all the oil has been added and the mayonnaise has thickened. Season with the yuzu juice, chilli dipping sauce, salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste.


To serve, place the vegetables on a serving plate with the yuzu dressing in a dipping bowl. Garnish the vegetables with spring onions, chilli and coriander cress.



