

Chicken strips in smoked bacon with sweet and sour tomatoes and sautéed potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 1


Recommended by
2 people







By Tony Tobin


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the chicken strips

½ chicken breast, skin removed, sliced into 4 strips
4 rashers smoked streaky bacon

For the sautéed potatoes

1 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp butter
½ onion, finely chopped
2 rashers smoked streaky bacon, chopped
150g/5½oz new potatoes, sliced into 0.5cm/¼in rounds
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the sweet and sour tomatoes

2 tomatoes, halved
1 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tsp caster sugar
2 tsp balsamic vinegar
1 tbsp chopped fresh basil leaves

For the wilted spinach

1 tbsp olive oil
100g/3½oz spinach, washed
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


For the chicken, roll each chicken strip in a piece of streaky bacon. Secure, if necessary, with a cocktail stick. Heat a non-stick ovenproof frying pan and fry the chicken for 2-3 minutes, turning frequently, until lightly golden all over.


Transfer to the oven and cook for a further 6-8 minutes, or until completely cooked through.


For the sautéed potatoes, heat the oil and butter together in a non-stick frying pan, add the onion and fry gently until soft but not coloured. Add the bacon and fry until golden-brown.


Add the potatoes and cook over a moderate heat until tender and golden-brown. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


For the sweet and sour tomatoes, place the tomato halves in a small ovenproof dish and drizzle over the olive oil. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper and sprinkle over the sugar.


Transfer to the oven and roast for 8-10 minutes, or until just collapsing. Remove from the oven and drizzle over the balsamic vinegar while the tomatoes are still hot.


When the tomatoes have cooled slightly, sprinkle over the basil.


For the wilted spinach, heat the olive oil in a pan, add the spinach and sauté for 1-2 minutes, or until the spinach just wilts. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


To serve, place the sautéed potatoes on a serving plate and top with the chicken pieces. Serve the tomatoes and wilted spinach alongside.



