

Chilli-fried tofu with egg-fried rice



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
6 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Spice up your tofu with a fiery chilli sauce. Serve alongside egg-fried rice for a speedy vegetarian meal that is packed full of flavour.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the tofu

2 tbsp vegetable oil, plus extra for shallow frying
500g/1lb 2oz firm tofu, drained, patted dry with kitchen paper, cut into 1.5cm/½in cubes
4 tbsp rice flour (potato flour or cornflour can also be used)
2 tbsp Sichuan peppercorns, crushed
75g/3oz cashew nuts

For the chilli sauce

150ml/5fl oz rice wine vinegar
150g/5oz caster sugar
4 tbsp soy sauce
2 red chillies, finely diced
2 tsp dried chilli flakes
10cm/4in piece fresh root ginger, peeled, finely grated
2 carrots, peeled, julienned

For the egg-fried rice

2 tbsp groundnut oil
200g/7oz basmati rice, cooked according to packet instructions, drained
2 large free-range eggs, lightly beaten
2 tsp sesame oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 spring onions, finely sliced
3 tbsp chopped fresh coriander leaves




Method


For the tofu, pour the vegetable oil into a deep heavy-based frying pan until it is 3cm/1in in depth. Heat over a medium heat. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Meanwhile, mix the tofu with the two remaining tablespoons of vegetable oil.


Mix the flour and crushed peppercorns together in a bowl. Dredge the tofu in the flour, shake off any excess, then carefully lower the coated tofu into the hot oil and cook the tofu for 1-2 minutes, or until crisp. Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper. (You may need to do this in batches.)


Fry the cashew nuts in the hot oil for 1-2 minutes, or until golden-brown and crisp. Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


For the chilli sauce, heat the vinegar, sugar and soy sauce in a non-reactive frying pan until the mixture comes to the boil. Add the chillies, chilli flakes and ginger and cook for a further 1-2 minutes, or until the volume of the liquid had reduced.


Add the fried tofu, fried cashew nuts and carrots to the pan, stir well and cook for 1-2 minutes, or until the carrots have softened.


For the egg-fried rice, heat the oil in a wok over a high heat, add the rice and stir-fry for 2-3 minutes, or until the rice is completely warmed through.


Whisk the eggs and sesame oil together in a bowl and add to the wok. Stir-fry for a further 2-3 minutes, or until the eggs have cooked through completely.


Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper then stir through the spring onions and coriander.


To serve, spoon the egg-fried rice onto four serving plates and top with a spoonful of chilli-fried tofu.



