

Chilli-spiced salmon




Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
14 people



This spicy fish supper is a breeze to put together for family or friends - open the parcels at the table.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a blender to make the chermoula.

  Each serving provides 479kcal, 32g protein, 10g carbohydrates (of which 9g sugars), 32g fat (of which 6g saturates), 3.5g fibre and 0.2g salt.






By The Hairy Bikers


From Food & Drink






Ingredients
For the chermoula paste

6 garlic cloves
large bunch fresh coriander
1 tbsp sweet paprika
1 tsp smoked paprika
1 tbsp ground cumin
1 tbsp ground coriander
large pinch saffron strands
5cm/2in piece ginger
1 red chilli, trimmed, seeds removed
2 tbsp white balsamic vinegar (or ordinary balsamic vinegar)
1 lemon, juice only
3 tbsp good-quality olive oil
salt, to taste
cayenne pepper, to taste (optional)

For the salmon

4 x 150g/5oz salmon fillets
1 tsp olive oil
1 white onion, sliced into thin wedges
2 red peppers, stalk removed, de-seeded, flesh cut into strips
100ml/3½fl oz white wine
200g/7oz cherry tomatoes, halved
2 tbsp fresh basil leaves, finely chopped
1 tsp grated lemon zest
dash vegetable oil, for greasing
½ lemon, cut into 4 thin slices
cooked couscous, to serve
black olives, sliced, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6.


For the chermoula paste, blend all of the paste ingredients, except the salt and cayenne pepper, in a food processor until smooth and well combined. Season, to taste, with salt and cayenne pepper, if using.


Spread the chermoula paste liberally all over the salmon fillets. Cover and set aside to marinate for as long as possible, and up to an hour if time allows.


Heat the oil in a large, non-stick frying pan over a medium heat. Add the onion and red peppers and fry for 3-4 minutes, or until they start to soften but are still intact.


Add the wine and bring the mixture to the boil, then reduce the heat until the wine is simmering. Simmer for 2-3 minutes, or until most of the wine has evaporated.


Add the tomatoes, reduce the heat slightly, and cook for 4-5 minutes, or until they start to break down. Stir in the basil and lemon zest.


Cut four large pieces of baking parchment or aluminium foil – each needs to be large enough to wrap a fish fillet. Brush or spray each piece of parchment or foil with a little vegetable oil, then place one chermoula-coated salmon fillet into the centre of each.


Place a slice of lemon on top of each fish fillet. Spoon one-quarter of the red pepper and tomato mixture alongside each piece of fish.


Neatly wrap the fish parcels by bringing the opposite edges of the parchment or foil together and folding to seal on all sides.


Place the fish parcels on a baking tray and bake in the oven for 12-15 minutes, or until the salmon is cooked through. (To check the fish is cooked through, remove one parcel from the oven and open slightly - the salmon is cooked through when it flakes easily with a fork. Caution: Steam will escape from the parcel as you open it.)


To serve, place the unopened parcels onto serving plates. Allow each person to open their own parcel. Serve with a large bowl of steamed couscous and a few black olives.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: This recipe makes more chermoula paste than you will need here. The remaining paste can be stored in an airtight jar in the fridge for 3-4 days and used to liven up other fish, chicken and vegetarian dishes.

  Tip 2: Use an olive oil spray when cooking to make this meal even healthier.

