

Chocolate fondant with salted caramel brittle and caramel sauce



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Push the boat out with this truly indulgent dessert of melt-in-the-middle chocolate puddings teamed with salted caramel.

  Equipment and preparation: You will need four 7x6cm/2¾x2½in or 100ml/3½fl oz dariole moulds.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the caramel sauce

110g/4oz dark soft brown sugar
110g/4oz butter
½ tsp fleur de sel (or sea salt)
175ml/6fl oz double cream

For the salted caramel brittle

100g/3½oz caster sugar
50g/1¾oz butter, plus extra for greasing
½ tsp fleur de sel (or sea salt)
100g/3½oz blanched hazelnuts

For the chocolate fondant

125g/4½oz dark chocolate, broken into pieces
125g/4½oz butter, plus extra for greasing
4 free-range eggs
100g/3½oz caster sugar
60g/2oz plain flour
4 salted caramel chocolates
cocoa powder, for dusting

To serve

500g/1lb 2oz vanilla ice cream
200g/7oz fresh raspberries




Method


For the caramel sauce, place the sugar, butter and salt in a saucepan and heat until the sugar has melted, then add the cream.


Bring it to the boil and let it simmer for three minutes until thick. Transfer to a bowl and chill in the fridge for two hours.


For the salted caramel brittle, place the sugar, butter, salt and four tablespoons of water in a heavy-based frying pan and gently heat without stirring. Increase the heat until the caramel turns a light golden-brown. Remove from the heat.


Using a spoon or pallet knife smear a line of caramel in the centre of each serving plate.


Line a baking tray with parchment paper. Add the hazelnuts to the pan and tip onto the prepared baking tray. Set aside to cool.


Once cold, break the caramel into pieces and set aside.


For the chocolate fondant, preheat a flat baking sheet in the oven set to 220C/450F/Gas 7. Grease four dariole moulds.


Place the chocolate and butter into a bowl over a pan of simmering water and allow to melt.


Meanwhile break the eggs into a large bowl, add the sugar and whisk for two minutes or until pale and fluffy, then mix in the flour.


Once the chocolate has melted, pour it over the eggs and sugar and stir in well.


Spoon some of the mixture into the moulds drop the salted caramel chocolates in and add another spoonful of the mix. Only fill them three-quarters full.


Place the fondants on a baking tray and cook in the oven for six minutes


To serve, remove the fondants from their moulds and place in the centre of the plates prepared with lines of caramel. Place a quenelle of ice cream on each side of the puddings and garnish with caramel brittle. Dust with cocoa powder. Drizzle some of the caramel sauce around the plate and dot with raspberries.



