

Chocolate sponge pudding



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 16


Recommended by
6 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




A yummy nursery pudding that is quick and easy to make and bound to be eaten in moments.






By The Hairy Bikers


From Hairy Bikers' Meals on Wheels






Ingredients

100g/3½oz golden syrup
350g/12oz butter, softened, plus extra for greasing
125g/4½oz caster sugar
100g/3½oz cocoa powder
6 free-range eggs, lightly beaten
350g/12oz self-raising flour




Method


Generously butter the inside of two 1.2 litre/2 pint pudding basins.


Spoon half the golden syrup into the base of each pudding basin and set aside.


Beat the butter, sugar and cocoa powder together in a mixer until fluffy.


Beat in half the eggs followed by half the flour and when well combined, add the remaining eggs and flour. The mixture should be at just dropping consistency. Add a splash of milk if the mixture is too thick.


Spoon the mixture into the pudding basins only filling them three quarters full, then smooth the top with the back of a spoon.


Loosely cover with cling film, allowing room for the cling film to inflate as the mixture rises, and cook in the microwave on high power for five minutes. The pudding is done when a skewer inserted into the centre of the pudding come out clean.


Leave to stand for five minutes then run a blunt knife around the edge of the pudding to loosen the sides, carefully invert onto a deep plate and remove the basin.


Cut the puddings into 8 generous wedges each and serve with custard.




Recipe Tips
If you don't have a microwave, you can steam this pudding the old-fashioned way. Cover the basin with a circle of baking parchment, with the pleat in the centre of the pudding and then cover again with aluminium foil. Tie the pudding very tightly around the rim with string, leaving a handle.

  Put an upturned heatproof saucer or small trivet in a large, deep saucepan, and place the pudding basin on top. Add enough just-boiled water to the pan to come halfway up the sides of the basin. Cover the pan with a tight-fitting lid and place over a low heat. Allow to steam in the gently simmering water for 1¾ hours, adding more water to the pan if necessary. (Make sure the pan does not boil dry.)

