

Chocolate whoopie pies and salted peanut brittle



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




If you like sweet American desserts you’ll love this chocolate whoopie pie sandwiched with marshmallow cream with peanut brittle and a shot of peanut butter milkshake.

  Equipment and Preparation: You will need a silicone sheet and a piping bag with a plain round nozzle.






By Allegra McEvedy


From Chefs: Put Your Menu Where Your Mouth Is






Ingredients
For the salted peanut butter brittle

200g/7oz caster sugar
350g/12oz salted peanuts

For the whoopie pies

230g/8oz plain flour
65g/2¼oz cocoa powder
1 tsp baking powder
¼ tsp bicarbonate of soda
¼ tsp fine salt
170g/6oz butter, softened
150g/5½oz caster sugar
1 large free-range egg, beaten
1 tsp vanilla extract
4 tbsp buttermilk
100ml/3½fl oz strong coffee

For the filling

400ml/14fl oz double cream
50g/1¾oz icing sugar
100g/3½oz marshmallows, roughly chopped

For the peanut butter milkshake

4 tbsp smooth peanut butter
2 scoops vanilla ice cream
280ml/9½fl oz full-fat milk




Method


Line a baking tray with a silicone sheet. Line another tray with baking parchment.


Place the sugar in a large frying pan over a medium heat. Melt the sugar and cook, without stirring, until it turns golden brown, then add the peanuts. Pour the mixture onto the silicone sheet. Leave to set.


For the whoopie pies, place the flour, cocoa, baking powder, bicarbonate of soda, salt, butter, sugar, eggs, vanilla extract, buttermilk and coffee in a free-standing food mixer and mix until well combined.


Place the mixture in a piping bag with a plain round nozzle and pipe 4cm/1½in circles, leaving a 3cm/1¼in gap between them on the baking parchment.


Bake the whoopie pies for 10 minutes until springy to the touch. Leave to cool on a wire rack.


For the filling, whisk the cream with the sugar in a large bowl and stir in the marshmallows.


For the peanut butter milkshake, place all the milkshake ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth.


To serve, take one of the whoopies and spoon on a tablespoon of the cream and sandwich with another whoopie. Smash the brittle and serve some on the side. Pour the milkshake in a shot glass and serve alongside.



