

Chorizo and chickpea stew with chorizo-stuffed chicken



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
13 people



Cook up some Spanish flavours with this chorizo and tomato stew served with chorizo-stuffed chicken.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients

250g/9oz semi-cured chorizo, skinned, roughly chopped
1 onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 red chilli, finely chopped
1 tsp smoked paprika
2 tomatoes, skinned, seeds removed, chopped
200g/7oz tinned chopped tomatoes
400g/14oz tinned chickpeas, drained
110ml/4fl oz chicken stock
300g/11oz baby spinach leaf
½ lemon, juice only
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
3 tbsp coriander cress

For the chorizo-stuffed chicken

150g/5oz cured chorizo, cut into thick slices
110g butter, softened
dash lemon juice
4 chicken breasts, boneless and skinless
50g/2oz plain flour
2 free-range eggs, lightly beaten
110g/4oz dried breadcrumbs




Method


Heat a large saucepan and fry the chorizo for 3-4 minutes, or until crisp.


Add the onion, garlic and chilli and fry for 2-3 minutes, or until softened.


Add the paprika and stir until well combined. Place the tomatoes, chickpeas and chicken stock into the pan and bring to the boil.


Reduce the heat and simmer for 4-5 minutes. Add the spinach and fold it through the stew.


Return the mixture to the heat and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Cook for another minute to wilt the spinach, then season with lemon juice.


For the chorizo-stuffed chicken, heat a deep fat fryer to 170C/340F. (CAUTION: Do not leave hot fat unattended.)


Place the chorizo and butter into a food processor and blend to a purée. Add a little touch of lemon juice and black pepper, then spoon into a piping bag. Make an incision in the side of the chicken breast and pipe some of the chorizo butter into the chicken.


Press the incision shut then dust with the flour. Prepare a plate of egg and a plate of breadcrumbs. Dip the chicken first in the egg, then the breadcrumbs. Place into the fat fryer and cook for 8-9 minutes, or until golden-brown and cooked through.


To serve, cut the chicken in half carefully. Place the stew into a bowl and top with the chicken. Finish with a drizzle of extra virgin olive oil and scattering of cress.



