

Choux buns filled with goats’ cheese, toasted walnuts and caramelised red onions



Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes about 15


Recommended by
2 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Choux buns make wonderful party canapés and you won’t be disappointed by this recipe. Vary it by using a different type of cheese or nut for the filling.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need a piping bag, a 1cm/½in plain nozzle and a wide star nozzle.






By Ruby Tandoh


From The Great British Bake Off






Ingredients
For the choux buns

50g/1¾oz butter, softened
65g/2¼oz plain flour
2 large free-range eggs
salt

For the caramelised red onions

2 large red onions, sliced
50g/1¾oz caster sugar
2 tbsp olive oil
1-2 tsp balsamic vinegar
salt
1 bay leaf
½ tsp dried chilli flakes

For the filling

120ml/4fl oz double cream
200g/7oz soft goats’ cheese (soft-textured rather than waxy)

To finish

100g/3½oz shelled walnuts, chopped and toasted
50g/1¾oz rocket




Method


For the choux buns, preheat the oven to 220C/fan oven 200C/425F/Gas 7. Grease and line a baking tray.


Heat 150ml/5fl oz water in a saucepan. Add the softened butter in small pieces and bring the mixture to a rolling boil.


When the butter has melted, add the flour to the mixture all at once and beat continuously until the mixture is thick and smooth. Continue to beat until the dough comes away cleanly from the sides of the pan.


Remove the dough from the pan and place in a bowl to cool.


When the dough is cool, beat the eggs in a clean bowl with a fork. Gradually add the beaten egg mixture to the dough, a bit at a time, mixing well between each addition; the mixture should now be at dropping consistency, but still firm enough to be piped in a piping bag. (You may not need to use all of the beaten egg.)


Transfer the mixture to a piping bag fitted with a 1cm/½in plain nozzle. Pipe the pastry into small circles of about 5cm/2in on the prepared baking tray.


Bake for 10-15 minutes and then reduce the heat to 190C/fan oven 170C/375F/Gas 5 and cook for a further 20-25 minutes, or until they are golden-brown and dry. Remove from the oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool.


For the caramelised red onions, place all the ingredients into a pan and cook for 20 minutes over a low heat. Remove from the heat and leave to cool.


For the filling, stir the cream into the goats’ cheese in a bowl. Put the mixture into a piping bag fitted with a wide star nozzle.


Cut each choux bun in half and pipe the goats’ cheese on top of each halved choux bun. Add a teaspoon of onion and top with a walnut and a little rocket.




Recipe Tips
Keep any leftover caramelised red onions in the fridge and use as a condiment.

