

Thai green curry with sticky rice



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Take your curry to the next level with fragrant Thai flavours and perfect sticky rice.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the paste

3 lemongrass stalks, chopped
4 green bird's-eye chillies, seeds removed and chopped
4 lime leaves, chopped
1 lime, zest and juice only
1 banana shallot, chopped
2cm/¾in knob galangal (or fresh root ginger)
4 tbsp chopped coriander stalks
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground coriander
½ tsp crushed black peppercorns
2 tbsp Thai fish sauce
1 tsp palm sugar

For the Thai green curry

2 tbsp vegetable oil
8 chicken thighs, skinned, boned and chopped
400ml/14fl oz coconut milk
125g/4½oz pea aubergines
2 limes, juice only
2 tbsp chopped coriander leaves
2 tbsp Thai basil, torn

For the sticky rice

400g/14oz sticky rice
150ml/5fl oz coconut milk
1 tsp salt

For the steamed vegetables

1 head broccoli or 250g/9oz purple sprouting broccoli
300g/10½oz sugar snap peas

To garnish

1 shallot, sliced
2 tbsp vegetable oil
4 tbsp fresh coriander
75g/2¾oz salted peanuts, chopped




Method


Place all the ingredients for the paste in a blender and blend until smooth.


Heat a wok and add 1 tbsp of the oil. Add the paste and the chicken and cook for a couple of minutes. Then stir in the coconut milk, pea aubergines and lime juice. Cover with a lid and simmer gently for 10-15 minutes, or until the chicken is completely cooked through.


For the sticky rice, rinse the rice 3 times and drain. Put the rice in a saucepan and cover with coconut milk and water to about 1cm/½in above the rice. Add the salt and cover with a lid. Place on the heat and bring to the boil. Boil for 5 minutes, then without opening the lid, turn the heat off and steam for 20 minutes.


Heat a steamer and cook the broccoli and peas for 2-3 minutes.


For the garnish, heat a small frying pan and add the oil. Once hot, add the shallots and fry until golden-brown, drain on kitchen paper.


Place the sticky rice and curry in serving bowls and garnish with the fresh coriander, peanuts and fried shallots. Serve the steamed vegetables on the side.




Recipe Tips
Pea aubergines are available online and in the 'food cupboard' area of some large supermarkets.

