

Thai jungle curry






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person



Get all the ingredients cut and prepared for this authentic curry and then it’s just a matter of mixing together the chilli paste and getting it all in the pan.






By The Hairy Bikers


From The Hairy Bikers' Asian Adventure






Ingredients
For the jungle curry paste

6 Thai shallots, finely chopped
3 large garlic cloves, finely chopped
thumb-sized piece galangal, coarsely grated
5 Thai green chillies, finely chopped
12cm/5in stalk lemongrass, outer leaves removed and white part thinly sliced
6 coriander roots, washed and chopped
½ tsp shrimp paste
3 kaffir lime leaves, finely chopped
1 tsp white peppercorns, crushed

For the curry

3 tbsp vegetable oil
500g/1lb 2oz pork tenderloin, chopped
5 Thai green aubergines, cut into quarters
400g/14oz chicken stock
2 small red chillies pierced for extra heat, chopped, with or without seeds
2 tbsp Thai fish sauce
4 kaffir lime leaves
25g/1oz krachai, thinly sliced (a milder version of galangal and ginger, from the same family)
1 tbsp palm sugar
400g/14oz butternut squash, diced
40g/1½oz pea aubergines, available in jars at large supermarkets or fresh at Asian supermarkets
1 stem fresh green peppercorns (optional), alternatively use ½ tsp brined green peppercorns from a jar
7 Chinese long beans, cut into 2.5cm/1in slices, alternatively use French beans
1 large handful holy basil, torn
steamed or boiled rice, to serve




Method


For the paste, either place all the ingredients in a small blender with two tablespoons of water and blend, or finely chop and grind in a pestle and mortar.


For the curry, place a large wok over a medium heat, add the vegetable oil and then add the paste. Stir occasionally for 3-4 minutes to cook through.


Add the pork and stir fry to brown the meat on all sides. Add the quarters of Thai green aubergine, the hot stock, chilli and fish sauce. Bring to the boil and then reduce the heat to a simmer and cook for 5-8 minutes.


Add the lime leaves, kracthai, palm sugar, butternut squash, pea aubergines and fresh green peppercorns (or brined peppercorns).


Cook for a further 10 minutes, or until the butternut squash and green aubergines are just about cooked.


Finally add the chopped long beans and simmer for four minutes. Stir through the holy basil just before serving. Serve with steamed or boiled rice.



