

Asian-spiced rice with coriander-crusted lamb and rosemary oil



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 1







By Richard Phillips


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the Asian-spiced rice

200g/7oz long grain rice
1 tsp ground turmeric
300ml/½ pint hot chicken stock
½ tsp coriander seeds
4 cardamom pods, seeds only
35g/1¼oz butter
1 tbsp chopped fresh coriander leaves

For the coriander-crusted lamb

1 tsp coriander seeds
½ tsp white peppercorns
1 lamb chop
1 tbsp olive oil
3 garlic cloves, peeled
1 tbsp clear honey
1 sprig fresh rosemary
1 sprig fresh thyme
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the rosemary oil

3 tbsp olive oil
2 sprigs fresh rosemary, chopped
1 sprig fresh thyme, chopped
1 sprig fresh flatleaf parsley, chopped




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


For the Asian-spiced rice, place the rice, turmeric and chicken stock into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Turn down the heat and simmer for five minutes. Crush the coriander seeds and cardamom seeds in a pestle and mortar and add to the rice. Continue cooking for a further 4-5 minutes, adding more water from the kettle if the rice looks too dry. When the rice is cooked, add the butter and stir in the chopped coriander.


For the coriander-crusted lamb, grind the coriander seeds and white peppercorns in a pestle and mortar and rub into the lamb. Heat the oil in a pan, add the whole garlic cloves to brown slightly, and in the same pan, cook the lamb for about two minutes on each side or until golden-brown. Drizzle the honey over, tuck the rosemary and thyme sprigs around the chop, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and place the pan into the oven for about 10-12 minutes, or until the lamb is cooked.


For the rosemary oil, place all the ingredients into a mini-blender and process until smooth.


To serve, place a 10cm/4inch chefs' ring on a serving plate and fill with the cooked rice. Press down, remove the ring and place the coriander-crusted lamb chop on top. Arrange the roasted garlic cloves around the side, and drizzle the rosemary oil in a circle around the edge.



