

Coffee crème caramels




Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These are very sophisticated puds with the sweetness of the custard balanced by the flavour of coffee and a touch of bitterness from the caramel. You need to make these a day in advance so they can sit in the fridge, where the caramel will gradually melt into the coffee custard.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need four ovenproof ramekins.






By Paul Hollywood


From Paul Hollywood's Pies & Puds






Ingredients

1 tbsp instant coffee granules
75g/2½oz caster sugar
600ml/20fl oz full-fat milk
3 free-range eggs
3 free-range egg yolks

For the caramel

125g/4½oz caster sugar




Method


Heat the oven to 150C/300F/Gas 2. Have ready four ovenproof ramekins.


Put the coffee, caster sugar and milk in a saucepan and bring gently up to simmering point, stirring occasionally to dissolve the coffee. Do not boil. Remove from the heat and set aside while you make the caramel.


For the caramel, put the sugar and 50ml/2fl oz of water in a heavy based-pan. Heat gently until the sugar has dissolved, then bring to the boil. Boil for a few minutes, or until the syrup has turned to a dark golden-brown caramel.


As soon as the caramel has reached the right colour, pour it into the ramekins. Take care because it will be extremely hot. Leave to set (but do not put it in the fridge).


Beat the eggs and egg yolks together in a bowl. Gently pour on the coffee-flavoured milk and whisk until well combined. Strain into a jug. Pour this mixture into the ramekins. Put the ramekins in a large, deep oven tray. Pour hot water into the tray so that it comes three-quarters of the way up the ramekins. Cover the tray with foil and place in the oven. Bake for 40-45 minutes, or until the custards are just set but still have a bit of wobble.


Remove from the oven dish and leave to cool completely, then refrigerate for 24 hours.


To turn out, first run a thin-bladed knife around the outside of the custard then put a plate over the top and invert the ramekin so that the custard and its lovely caramel juices come out onto the dish. Serve straight away.



