

Cold poached chicken steeped in a tomato and smoked garlic dressing with asparagus and new potato



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Tasty poached chicken with a herby tomato and garlic dressing is served with a simple-to-make potato salad. Serve with pesto or sun-dried tomato bread for a summer weekend lunch party.





By Rob Kirby


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients

4 x corn-fed chicken breasts, wing bone trimmed and skinned
500ml/17fl oz chicken stock
4 shallots
2 bulbs smoked garlic
15g/½oz fresh tarragon
15g/½oz fresh coriander
15g/½oz fresh basil
400ml/14½fl oz tomato ketchup
125ml/4½fl oz sunflower or light olive oil
½ lemon, juice only
6 drops Worcestershire sauce
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the salad

500g/1lb 2oz new potatoes
225g/8oz asparagus, trimmed
4 shallots
½ bunch fresh chives, snipped
150ml/¼ pint mayonnaise

For decoration

vine cherry tomatoes fried in olive oil and balsamic vinegar
deep fried basil leaves




Method


Heat the stock in a deep frying pan and gently poach the chicken for 10-15 minutes. Place in a bowl.


While the chicken is cooking, put the shallots, garlic and herbs into a blender and pulse until finely chopped.


Add the tomato ketchup and slowly incorporate the oil, lemon juice and Worcestershire sauce. Blend until combined and season to taste.


Pour the tomato and tarragon dressing over the chicken, leave to cool and marinate.


Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil. Cook the new potatoes until tender. Drain and chill.


Bring a large pan of salted water to the boil. Blanch the asparagus for 2-3 minutes. Drain and chill.


Chop the shallots, dice the new potatoes and add the asparagus and snipped chives.


Gently fold in the mayonnaise, season to taste and refrigerate.


Remove the chicken from the dressing and put on a large serving plate or bowl. Pour over the dressing and spoon the potato and asparagus salad on to the plate.


Finish with fried vine cherry tomatoes and basil leaves and serve.



