

Coq au vin




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
80 people



Impress your mates at a dinner party – or just show off at home – with this easy eight-stage coq au vin recipe made with white wine and served with creamy mash.






By Bill Granger


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the coq au vin

1.5kg/3¼lb chicken, jointed
150g/5oz diced bacon or lardons
10 French shallots, peeled
a few thyme sprigs
1 rosemary sprig
1 tsp dried chilli flakes
3 tbsp olive oil
250ml/9fl oz white wine
small knob of butter
350g/13oz mixed mushrooms (such as oyster and chestnut), sliced
3 garlic cloves, crushed
small handful chopped fresh flatleaf parsley

For the crème fraîche mash

800g/1¾Ib potatoes, peeled and chopped
150ml/5fl oz milk
25g/1oz butter
110g/4¼oz crème fraîche (or 110ml/4¼fl oz single cream)
sea salt, to taste




Method


For the coq au vin, preheat the oven to 220C/430F/Gas 7. Arrange the chicken pieces in a large roasting tin and scatter with the bacon, shallots, thyme, rosemary and chilli flakes. Season, to taste, with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Drizzle the contents of the roasting tray with two tablespoons of the olive oil and roast in the oven for 20 minutes.


When the chicken has been roasted, add the wine to the tin and cook for another 20-25 minutes. Remove from the oven.


Heat the butter and remaining tablespoon of oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat. When the butter is foaming, add the mushrooms and garlic and fry for 3-5 minutes. Tip the mushrooms and garlic into the tin and scatter with the parsley.


Meanwhile, for the crème fraîche mash, boil the potatoes in a pan of salted water until tender. Remove from the heat, drain well and return to the hot pan.


Mash the potatoes until smooth.


Heat the milk and butter in a small pan over a medium heat, until the butter has melted (do not allow the mixture to boil). Beat the hot butter and milk into the potatoes, then fold in the crème fraîche or cream. Season, to taste, with sea salt.


To serve, pile some of the crème fraîche mash onto each of four serving plates and spoon the coq au vin on top.




Recipe Tips
For special occasions Bill likes to blend the potatoes until smooth in a food mixer with a paddle attachment rather than mashing them.

