

Cream of cauliflower soup with parsley and apple gnocchi, apple purée and apple crisp



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4



Apples make an unusual addition to classic Italian gnocchi and the apple crisp adds a touch of glamour.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the apples

2 eating apples, preferably Cox variety
2 cooking apples, preferably Bramley variety, peeled, cored and chopped
50g/1¾oz butter
2-4 tbsp caster sugar, to taste

For the soup

1 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, finely chopped
1 garlic, finely chopped
800g/1lb 12oz cauliflower florets, roughly chopped
1 litre/1¾ pints chicken stock
150ml/5fl oz double cream
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the gnocchi

200g/7oz potatoes, boiled and passed through a ricer
4 free-range egg yolks
75g/3oz Italian '00' flour, plus extra for rolling
1 tsp salt
30g/1oz apple, finely grated
2 tbsp flat leaf parsley, finely chopped
2 tbsp oil




Method


For the apples, preheat the oven to 150C/300F/Gas 2. Slice the eating apples very finely on a mandolin then lay onto a silicone or parchment lined tray and place in the oven for one hour until dried and slighty crisp. Remove from the oven and allow to cool.


Place the cooking apples, butter and 2-3 tbsp water into a saucepan, cover and cook for 4-5 minutes or until the apples have broken down. Stir and season with the sugar and a little salt. Set aside and keep warm.


Meanwhile, make the soup. Heat a deep sauté pan until hot, add the olive oil, onion and garlic and cook gently for two minutes until just softened. Add the cauliflower and chicken stock and bring to the boil.


Reduce the heat and simmer for 8-12 minutes or until the cauliflower is tender.


Blend the soup to a purée in a food processor, then return to the saucepan and add the cream. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, return to the boil and simmer for one minute.


For the gnocchi, mix the potato, egg yolks, flour, salt, apple and parsley together in a bowl until it just forms a soft dough. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Divide the mixture in half and roll each piece on a lightly floured surface into a long sausage shape, about 1cm/1/2in diameter. Using a sharp knife, cut each sausage into 2.5cm/1in pieces of gnocchi.


Bring a large saucepan of salted water to the boil. Drop the gnocchi into the water and cook for 1-2 minutes, or until they float to the surface.


Remove the gnocchi from the water with a slotted spoon and place onto a plate lined with kitchen paper.


Heat a frying pan until hot, add the oil and the gnocchi and fry for 1-2 minutes until golden-brown and just crisp. Drain onto kitchen paper.


To serve, place a pile of apple purée into the centre of the soup bowl and top with a few gnocchi. Spoon the soup around the purée and finish with an apple crisp.



