

Creamy tomato soup




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Recommended by
44 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This tomato soup recipe is the perfect combination of naughty and nice - it's packed with vegetables but laced with a dash of sherry.

  This meal, if served as four portions, provides 214kcal, 4g protein, 15g carbohydrate (of which 14g sugars), 14g fat (of which 4.5g saturates), 5g fibre and 1.1g salt per portion.



Ingredients

3 tbsp olive oil
1 large onion, chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed
2 celery sticks, chopped
200g/7oz carrots, chopped
1 bay leaf
1 large sprig fresh thyme
750g/1½lb ripe plum or vine-ripened tomatoes, roughly chopped
½ tsp sugar
salt and freshly ground black pepper
200ml/7fl oz passata
500ml/17fl oz vegetable stock
100ml/3½fl oz single cream or low-fat crème fraîche
splash dry sherry
crusty bread and butter, to serve




Method


Heat the olive oil in a large saucepan and cook the onion for 5-6 minutes over a gentle heat until almost softened but not browned. Add the garlic, celery, carrots, bay leaf and thyme and cook for a further 6-7 minutes, stirring occasionally, making sure the vegetables don't stick to the base of the pan.


Add the chopped tomatoes and sugar and season well with salt and pepper. Cook for a few minutes, then stir in the passata and vegetable stock. Bring to a simmer, cover with a lid and cook for 35-40 minutes, until all the vegetables are tender.


Remove the bay leaf and thyme, then blend the soup in a liquidizer or food processor. This will probably have to be done in two batches. Pour the soup into a clean saucepan, passing it through a sieve if you want it really smooth. Stir in the cream, a splash of sherry and extra seasoning if required.


Pour into large mugs or bowls and serve with fresh crusty buttered bread.




Recipe Tips
Any remaining soup will keep in the fridge for a few days or can be frozen in individual servings. When reheating, make sure it's heated thoroughly but don't boil it as this will ruin the taste and texture of the soup.

