

Crème brûlée with marinated summer fruits and a mint broth



Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 8


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By Michael Caines


From Countryfile Summer Diaries






Ingredients
For the crème brûlées

5 free-range egg yolks
50g/2oz caster sugar
85ml/3fl oz milk
3 vanilla pods, split and seeds scraped out
500ml/17fl oz cold whipping cream
demerara sugar, for sprinkling

For the marinated summer fruits

100g/3½oz strawberries, hulled and quartered
100g/3½oz raspberries
100g/3½oz redcurrants
100g/3½oz blackcurrants
100g/3½oz blackberries
caster sugar, to taste
small handful fresh mint, chopped

For the mint broth

300ml/½ pint milk
30ml/1fl oz crème de menthe (mint-flavoured liqueur)




Method


For the crème brûlées, place the egg yolks into a bowl with the sugar and mix together until well combined.


Place the milk into a pan and bring to the boil with the vanilla pods and seeds.


Pour the milk into the bowl with the egg mixture and mix well. Add the cold cream, cover, then leave to infuse for 12 hours.


Preheat the oven to 100C/200F/Gas ½.


Remove the vanilla pods and divide the mixture among eight ramekins, filling each one to just below the rim. Place the ramekins onto a baking sheet, transfer to the oven and bake for approximately an hour, or until set. Remove from the oven and leave to cool.


For the marinated summer fruits, wash the fruits and leave to drain in a colander. Place a large handful of the fruit into a bowl with caster sugar, to taste, and mash with a fork. Gently stir in the remaining fruit and the chopped mint and leave to stand for five minutes. Taste and add a little more sugar if the fruit is too sharp.


For the mint broth, place the milk into a pan and bring to just below boiling point. Add the mint liqueur. Remove from heat and froth using a hand blender to produce a cappuccino effect.


Sprinkle the top of the crème brûlées with demerara sugar, then heat with a mini-blowtorch until caramelised. (Alternatively, place them under a very hot grill for 30 seconds, or until sugar has carmelised.)


To serve, place the crème brûlées onto serving plates with a spoonful of marinated fruits. Drizzle with the mint broth.



