

Crisp sweet and sour pork with yam chips



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 1







By Nick Nairn


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the sweet and sour pork

vegetable oil, for deep frying
100g/3½oz plain flour
salt and freshly ground black pepper
75ml/2½fl oz sparkling mineral water
100g/3½oz pork fillet, cut into strips
1 tbsp clear honey
1 ½ tbsp tomato ketchup
½ lemon, juice only
1 tomato, chopped
½ mango, chopped
2 tbsp coriander, chopped

For the yam chips

vegetable oil for deep frying
½ yam, peeled
salt




Method


Half fill a heavy-bottomed saucepan of sunflower oil and heat until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden when added (CAUTION: Hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended).


For the sweet and sour pork, place the flour, salt and freshly ground black pepper into a large bowl and gradually add the sparkling water while whisking. Whisk the ingredients until the mixture is the consistency of single cream.


Dip the pork strips in the batter and gently shake off the excess mixture.


Add the pork strips in batches of two or three to the hot vegetable oil. Cook for three minutes or until golden-brown and cooked through. Remove the strips from the oil with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper.


Heat a separate saucepan and add the honey, ketchup, lemon juice, tomato and mango and cook for two minutes while stirring, until combined and warmed through. Pour the mixture over the pork and stir in the chopped coriander.


For the yam chips, reheat the saucepan filled with sunflower oil until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden when added (CAUTION: Hot oil can ve dangerous. Do not leave unattended). 7. Slice the yam into thin strips using a mandolin. Rinse the strips under cold water and pat dry with kitchen paper.


Add the strips to the hot oil and cook for five minutes or until golden-brown and cooked through. Remove the strips from the oil with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper. Season with salt, to taste.


To serve, place the pork onto a clean plate and arrange the yam chips alongside.



