

Crispy tomato and mozzarella cakes



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 6


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients

50g/2oz butter
450g/1lb Arborio rice, rinsed and drained
splash white wine
850ml/1½ pints vegetable stock, warm
100g/3½oz sun-dried tomatoes, chopped
2 tbsp double cream
salt and freshly ground black pepper
vegetable oil, for deep-frying
150g/5½oz mozzarella, cut into cubes
plain flour, for dredging
1 free-range egg, beaten
150g/5oz fresh breadcrumbs
rocket leaves, drizzled with olive oil, to serve




Method


Melt the butter in a large, heavy-bottomed pan. Add the rice and cook on a low heat for a couple of minutes. When the rice starts to become translucent around the edges, add the wine and cook for one minute.


Add a ladleful of warm stock (it must be warm to enable the rice to cook properly) and stir well. When the stock has been absorbed by the rice, add another ladleful of stock and stir again until absorbed. Continue adding stock in this way until all the stock has been added and/or the rice is tender.


Add the sun-dried tomatoes and the cream and stir. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then remove from the heat and allow the risotto to go cold.


Heat the vegetable oil in a deep heavy-bottomed saucepan until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns brown in it. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Divide the cold risotto into six and roll into balls. The rice should be quite sticky. Make a hole in the centre of each ball with your finger and press some of the mozzarella into it. Reform the rice ball to cover over the cheese, then flatten slightly into a patty shape.


Dredge the patties in the flour, then dip into the beaten egg, then finally into the breadcrumbs. Repeat the dipping into the egg and the breadcrumbs to ensure the rice patties are thoroughly coated.


Carefully place the patties into the hot oil and deep fry for 4-5 minutes or until crisp and golden. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper.


To serve, place a tomato and mozzarella cake into the centre of six plates with a small handful of rocket leaves drizzled with olive oil placed alongside.



