

Cumin roasted scallops with a salad of honey glazed chicken wings, apple, celeriac and hazelnuts



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person



A gourmet way with chicken wings. This is an intricate dish but each part stands on its own so don't be afraid to try individual elements.






By Kenny Atkinson


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the glazed chicken wings

10 cornfed chicken wings, topped and tailed
500g/1lb 2oz duck fat
½ garlic bulb
6 sprigs thyme
1 lemon, zest and juice
75g/2½oz butter
75g/2½oz clear honey
salt

For the roasted hazelnuts

50g/1¾oz hazelnuts, peeled
10g/¼oz unsalted butter

For the celeriac purée

250g/9oz celeriac, peeled and chopped
1 banana shallot, peeled and finely chopped
1 garlic clove, peeled
75g/2½oz unsalted butter
salt and freshly ground black pepper
50ml/2fl oz double cream

For the apple and vanilla chutney

2 Granny Smith apples, peeled and finely chopped
100ml/3½fl oz cider vinegar
¼ vanilla pod, seeds only
200g/7oz caster sugar

For the cumin roasted scallops

12 scallops, removed from their shells, cleaned and roe removed
2g ground cumin
2 tbsp rapeseed oil
salt
50g/1¾oz unsalted butter
1 lemon, juice only

To serve

hazelnut oil
1 Granny Smith apple, cut into fine matchsticks
2 tbsp red shiso cress
1 tbsp coriander cress




Method


For the glazed chicken wings, preheat the oven to 150C/300F/Gas 2.


Place the chicken wings, duck fat, garlic, thyme and lemon zest in an ovenproof dish and cover with foil. Place in the oven for an hour. Leave to cool before removing the centre bone and trimming the meat.


Heat a large frying pan and add the butter. Once hot, add the chicken wings skin-side down and cook until golden-brown. Add the honey and baste to form a sticky glaze. Season with salt and lemon juice.


For the roasted hazelnuts, heat a frying pan and add the hazelnuts and butter. Slowly roast until golden-brown. Once cool, cut in half.


For the celeriac purée, place all the ingredients apart from the double cream, into a large saucepan with 250ml/9fl oz water. Bring to the boil and reduce until the water and butter has emulsified to a third of the volume.


Place into a food processor and blend. Season with salt and pepper and pass through a fine sieve. Finish by mixing in the double cream. Keep warm until ready to serve.


For the apple and vanilla chutney, place all the ingredients with 50ml/2fl oz water into a medium saucepan and heat gently until all the liquid has absorbed into the apples.


For the cumin roasted scallops, dust the cumin over one side of the scallops. Heat a large frying pan and add the oil. Once hot, fry the scallops cumin-side down until golden-brown then season with salt.


Add the butter and turn the scallops over. Pour in the lemon juice and baste the scallops. Finish with a little salt.


To serve, place a spoonful of celeriac purée on each plate and using a small palette knife swipe the purée to form a smear.


Arrange three scallops over the purée and arrange the chicken wings in between the scallops. Spoon a little of the apple chutney next to the wings.


Scatter over the hazelnuts and place the apple matchsticks over the wings and scallops. Finish with red shiso cress and coriander cress and dress with a little hazelnut oil.



