

Cumin-crusted vegetables




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4-5


Recommended by
41 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This is a lovely spicy variation on your classic roasties, using a small amount of oil and lots of tantalising tastes. Goes beautifully with masala-marinated chicken, or with plain grilled meat.
  199 calories per portion (if serving 4)
  160 calories per portion (if serving 5)






By The Hairy Bikers


From Hairy Dieters: How to Love Food and Lose Weight






Ingredients

600g/1lb 5oz potatoes, preferably Maris Piper
1 tsp black mustard seeds
1 tsp cumin seeds
2 tbsp sunflower oil
1 tsp garam masala
½ tsp turmeric
1 medium red onion, halved and cut into thin wedges
1 yellow pepper, deseeded and cut into 4cm/1½in chunks
1 red pepper, deseeded and cut into 4cm/1½in chunks
1 orange pepper, deseeded and cut into 4cm/1½in chunks
2 medium courgettes, cut into 1cm/½in slices
freshly ground black pepper




Method


Preheat the oven to 190C/400F/Gas 6. Half-fill a medium saucepan with water and bring to the boil. Peel the potatoes, cut them into quarters and lower them carefully into the water. Bring the water back to the boil and cook for five minutes – just enough to parboil them.


While the potatoes are boiling, place a large non-stick frying pan over a medium heat and add the mustard and cumin seeds. Toast for about 30 seconds, then stir in the oil, garam masala and turmeric. Sizzle for a few seconds and add the onion.


Fry the onion in the spices for 1-2 minutes, stirring frequently.


Drain the potatoes in a large colander and toss several times to roughen up the surface of each potato.


Tip the potatoes into the pan with the onion and spices, season with a few twists of ground black pepper and toss together until the potatoes are lightly coated.


Tip everything onto a large baking tray and roast for 30 minutes.


Take the tray out of the oven and add the peppers and courgettes.


Toss lightly together and return to the oven for another 25–30 minutes until the potatoes are crisp and golden-brown and the vegetables have softened.



