

Curried lamb mince scrambled with egg (Kheema ghotala)



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4-6


Recommended by
13 people



Prepare a classic masala sauce for cooking mince, then finish it with tomatoes and egg to make a delicious scrambled spicy filling for breakfast rolls.






By Cyrus Todiwala


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the curried lamb mince

½ tsp ground turmeric
1 tsp ground red chilli powder
2 tsp ground coriander
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp garam masala powder
3 tbsp rapeseed oil
2 tbsp ginger and garlic paste (equal amounts of ginger and garlic puréed together with water and some oil)
4-5 green chillies, chopped
2-3 medium onions, chopped
500g/1lb 2oz lamb mince
½ lime, juice only
2-3 tbsp chopped fresh coriander and mint
2 tomatoes, skinned, seeds removed and chopped
3 tbsp tomato ketchup
4 free-range eggs

To serve

4 soft rolls
soft butter
1 red onion, chopped
1 green chilli, chopped
2 tbsp chopped fresh mint and coriander




Method


Blend the spice powders in a small bowl with 200ml/7fl oz of water. Cover and set aside.


Heat a casserole and add the rapeseed oil. When hot and a haze forms, add the ginger and garlic paste and the green chillies and fry gently, stirring well with a wooden spatula to prevent it sticking to the dish.


Once the paste changes colour and you get a great aroma, add the chopped onions and continue to cook. You may need to add a little water to clean the bottom of the pan.


Continue to fry the onions, adding water every now and again, on a medium to low heat until the onions get reduced to nearly a pulp. This may take some time.


Add the soaked spice mixture (add a little water to the bowl to release any spice stuck to the edges) and fry gently until you see the oil emerge. You might need to add a little water again to prevent sticking.


Reduce the heat to very low or switch off the heat completely and add the mince. Work it in well with the spatula until it is totally broken up and blended very well into the masala.


Return the heat to medium and cook, stirring regularly until the mince is cooked.


Season and stir in the lime juice and chopped mint and coriander.


Add the chopped tomatoes and tomato ketchup and cook until absorbed.


Beat the eggs and add them to the hot mince and stir gently over the heat until they are scrambled to your liking. We like ours soft as it makes for a great filling in a soft breakfast roll, but some prefer to make it almost as in an omelette consistency. Either way the taste is superb. Serve in buttered rolls with the onion, chilli, mint and coriander to taste.



