

Da Dong-inspired Peking duck salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2-4



Da Dong is an inspirational Beijing chef, famed for his Peking Duck roasted for double the usual time to cook out more fat. This is a great dish to make if you have any leftover roast duck pieces, and the sauce-like dressing is simply delicious.






By Ching-He Huang


From Exploring China: A Culinary Adventure






Ingredients

1 Granny Smith apple, unpeeled, halved, cored and sliced into thin half-moon shapes
1 Chinese pear, halved and sliced into thin half-moon shapes
1 large red radish, sliced lengthways into julienne strips
1 spring onion, sliced lengthways into julienne strips
1 tbsp Sichuan pickle or grated red radish mixed with a splash of rice vinegar
500ml/17fl oz vegetable oil
250g/9oz Peking roast duck, boned and cut into small pieces
¼ tsp Chinese five-spice powder
2 tbsp cornflour

For the dressing

3 tbsp wheat flour bean paste (tian mian jiang), or alternatively 1 part yellow bean paste mixed with 4 parts Hoisin sauce)
1 tbsp sugar
2 tbsp Chinese black rice vinegar (or balsamic vinegar)
1 tbsp XO sauce (available online) or, alternatively, ½ tbsp each chilli sauce and chilli oil

For the garnish

small handful of micro herbs
small handful of edible yellow flowers (such as evening primrose or nasturtiums)




Method


Place the apple and pear slices down the centre of a large, long, rectangular serving plate, to make heart shapes. Place some red radish strips down the middle of the hearts, then top with spring onion strips. Decorate the rest of the plate with sprinkles of Sichuan pickle.


Pour the oil into a wok and heat to 180C/350F, or until a cube of bread turns golden-brown in 15 seconds. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Dust the duck pieces with Chinese five-spice and then with the cornflour. Lower the pieces into the hot oil and deep-fry until crispy and the edges of the cornflour have turned golden-brown. Lift out and drain on kitchen paper. Place the duck down the middle of the apple, pear, radish and spring onion strips on the serving plate.


Mix together all the dressing ingredients in a small bowl. Spoon some of this dressing over the duck pieces. Garnish the duck with micro herbs and decorate the plate with some edible yellow flowers.



