

Dark and white chocolate cherry brownies






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 12 brownies


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These quick, easy brownies combine chocolate and decadent cherries for a rich, fruity flavour – just bake and go!






By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients

350g/12oz plain chocolate (minimum 55% cocoa solids)
250g/9oz unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing
3 large free-range eggs
250g/9oz dark soft brown sugar
110g/4oz plain flour
1 tsp baking powder
150g/5½oz fresh cherries, cut in half, stones removed
150g/5½oz white chocolate, roughly chopped
1-2 tbsp cocoa powder, for dusting




Method


Preheat the oven to 170C/150C Fan/Gas 3. Grease a 30x23cm/12x9in baking tin with butter then line the base and sides with baking paper.


Heat the plain chocolate and butter in a saucepan over a low heat until just melted and well combined, stirring occasionally. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool slightly (at least 5 minutes).


Meanwhile, whisk the eggs with the sugar in a large bowl until thick, pale and creamy.


Whisk the cooled chocolate mixture into the egg mixture, then gently fold in the flour, baking powder and half the cherries until just combined.


Spoon the brownie mixture into the prepared tin, then scatter over the white chocolate and the remaining cherries.


Bake the brownies in the oven for 25-30 minutes, or until the surface is cracked and a skewer inserted into the centre of the brownies comes out with just a little mixture sticking to it. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool completely in the tin, on a wire rack.


To serve, dust the brownies with cocoa powder, then cut into squares and remove from the tin.




Recipe Tips
If fresh cherries are unavailable, you can use frozen cherries instead. Defrost them first, drain and mix in as directed. They are likely to be wetter than fresh cherries, so you may need to cook your brownies for a little longer.

