

Deep-fried crispy duck egg with duck confit salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours



Cherries make a brilliant match to the duck confit, while the crispy eggs make it an extra special starter.






By James Martin


From Great British Food Revival






Ingredients
For the crispy eggs

2 tbsp white wine vinegar
sea salt
5 free-range duck eggs
freshly ground black pepper
115g/4oz plain flour
200g/7oz fresh breadcrumbs
vegetable oil, for deep-frying

For the duck confit salad

125ml/4fl oz rice wine vinegar
2 tbsp sugar
2 large shallots, finely sliced
100g/3½oz cherries, stoned
2 tbsp sherry vinegar
50ml/2fl oz extra virgin olive oil
50g/1¾oz frisée lettuce
15g/½oz fresh coriander leaves
small punnet fresh cress
small handful pea shoots
1 ready-made confit duck leg, meat picked from the bone and roughly chopped
4 slices streaky bacon, cooked until crisp between two baking sheets




Method


For the crispy eggs, bring a large pot of water to the boil and add the vinegar and a pinch of salt. Set a bowl of iced water alongside. Boil four of the eggs in the water for exactly five minutes then remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and transfer to the bowl of iced water.


Crack the remaining egg into a bowl and whisk in a pinch of salt and freshly ground black pepper. Place the flour and breadcrumbs in separate bowls and season each with a pinch of salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Peel the cooled boiled eggs. Gently dredge each one in the flour until evenly coated, and then dip into the beaten egg and roll in the breadcrumbs to coat. Chill in the fridge until ready to cook. Reserve the remaining breadcrumbs.


Meanwhile, for the salad, place the rice wine vinegar, sugar and a pinch of salt into a pan and bring to the boil. Pour over the shallots and cherries and set aside to cool.


For the dressing, pour the sherry vinegar and olive oil into a jug and whisk. Place the salad leaves into a large bowl and flake in pieces of the duck confit. Strain off the shallots and cherries, add them to the salad with the dressing and mix well. Season to taste with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Just before serving, heat the vegetable oil in a deep-fat fryer to 180C/350F. Roll the chilled eggs in another layer of breadcrumbs, then deep-fry until golden-brown. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.) Remove the eggs from the oil with a slotted spoon, drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with a little salt.


Place the dressed salad onto plates in little nests, cut one crispy egg open at the top and place in the centre of each nest. Cut the bacon into small pieces, scatter it around the egg and serve with a little more dressing poured around.



