

Deep-fried mozzarella with tomato and rocket sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the sauce

3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 medium onion, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
1.5kg/3lb 4oz tomatoes, chopped
8 fresh basil leaves
50g/2oz rocket leaves
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the deep-fried mozzarella

8 thin slices white bread
125ml/4½fl oz milk
200g/7oz buffalo mozzarella, cut into discs 1cm/½in thick
salt and freshly ground black pepper
6 tbsp plain flour
2 medium free-range eggs, beaten and seasoned with salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


For the sauce, heat the olive oil in a pan and, once hot, add the onion and garlic and fry for 4-5 minutes, until soft and golden.


Add the tomatoes, bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer gently for 15 minutes.


Add the basil leaves and rocket, stir and simmer for another 10-15 minutes.


Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and, using a hand blender, blend to a sauce. Pass the sauce through a sieve into a bowl and set aside.


For the deep-fried mozzarella, heat a deep-fat-fryer to 180C/350F. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous - do not leave unattended)


Cut the crusts off the bread and cut into slightly larger discs than the mozzarella slices.


Dip the slices of the bread on one side into the milk and then place a slice of the mozzarella onto the dry side.


Season the mozzarella with salt and freshly ground black pepper and make a sandwich with the other slice of bread, milk-soaked side on the outside. Press down around the edges to seal the sandwich.


Dredge the sandwich in the flour and then dip into the beaten egg to soak.


Carefully place the sandwich into the hot deep-fat-fryer and fry until golden and crisp on the outside. Carefully remove with a slotted spoon and drain on paper towels.


To serve, pour the hot sauce onto a plate and place two of the mozzarella sandwiches into the middle.



