

Duck breast with potato and apple rosti, apple purée and roasted figs



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people



This surprisingly easy recipe makes a great dinner party dish. You can make the rostis in advance and reheat them in the oven before serving.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients

4 duck breasts, trimmed
2 Bramley apples, peeled, roughly chopped
2 tbsp water
1-2 tbsp caster sugar, to taste
4 figs, halved widthways
75g/3oz butter
1 shallot, roughly chopped
250ml/9floz red wine
250ml/9floz chicken or beef stock

For the potato and apple rosti

400g/14oz potatoes, peeled, grated
200g/7oz Granny Smith apples, peeled, grated
75g/3oz crème fraîche
1 free-range egg yolk
75g/3oz butter, melted




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Heat an ovenproof frying pan until very hot, add the duck breast, skin-side down and cook for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown.


Turn the duck breast over and fry for another 1-2 minutes, then roast in the oven for 10-12 minutes (for medium) or until cooked to your liking. Remove from the oven and set aside to rest for 5-6 minutes.


Place the apples, water and a pinch of sugar into a saucepan over a medium heat, bring to a simmer then cover with a lid and cook for 4-5 minutes. Beat the apples to a purée then season with the sugar and salt.


Meanwhile, heat a frying pan until hot, add the figs, cut-side down and fry for 1-2 minutes, or until charred.


Heat a frying pan until hot, add half the butter and the shallot and fry for a couple of minutes, or until just softened.


Add the red wine and cook until the volume of the liquid has reduced by half. Add the stock, bring to the boil then reduce the heat and simmer until reduced by half again. Season with salt and black pepper then whisk in the remaining butter.


Meanwhile, for the potato and apple rosti, place the grated potatoes into a tea towel and squeeze out any excess water. Place into a bowl with the grated apple, crème fraîche, egg yolk and season well. Stir until well combined.


Heat an ovenproof frying pan until medium hot then add the butter and place two 7.5cm/3in metal rings into the pan. Spoon half the potato mixture into the rings and press down well with a spoon.


Cook for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown, continuing to press down.


Remove the rings, carefully turn the rostis over and cook for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown on the other side. Transfer to a baking tray, repeat with the remaining potato mixture and roast the rostis in the oven for 5-10 minutes, or until tender and cooked through.


To serve, place a rosti into the centre of serving plates. Carve the duck into slices and place on top of the rosti.


Place the fig and apple sauce alongside and finish with a drizzle of red wine sauce.



