

Spiced pork loin with black pudding sauce, asparagus, and spiced January King cabbage



Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



This pork is marinated for three days for a wonderful spiced flavor, then cooked quickly in a pressure cooker.






By Nigel Haworth


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the spiced pork loin

2 tsp salt
½-1 orange, zest only
6 juniper berries, crushed
1 stick cinnamon, crushed
2 tsp Jamaican allspice
pinch sugar
700g/1lb 9oz pork loin
1 large parsnip, peeled and cut into large dice
600ml/21fl oz chicken stock, plus extra for the gravy
1 tbsp icing sugar
pinch fecule (potato flour)
1 black pudding (2cm/¾in thick, 12cm/4½in long), diced
knob of butter
dash of cream
2 tbsp chopped parsley
8 spears new season asparagus
4 pieces deep-fried pork rind, to garnish

For the spicy cabbage

300g/11oz January King cabbage, thinly sliced
30g/1oz salt
50g/1¾oz smoked bacon lardons
5g roasted garlic
25ml/1fl oz rice vinegar
2 pinches of cumin
pinch salt, to taste




Method


For the pork loin, mix together the salt, orange zest, juniper, cinnamon, Jamaican allspice and a pinch of sugar. Rub this all over the pork loin. Wrap tightly in clingfilm and leave to marinate in the fridge for three days.


For the spicy cabbage, when you are ready to cook, mix the 30g/1oz of salt with the sliced cabbage and set aside for 30 minutes.


Meanwhile, put the pork in a pressure cooker with the diced parsnip and stock and cook for 25 minutes.


Remove the pork from the cooker. Allow it to rest for five minutes then sprinkle with icing sugar and glaze with a blow torch.


To make the sauce, pour off the excess cooking juices from the pork into a small pan, add a little more stock and bring to the boil, thicken lightly with fecule (potato starch) and pass through a fine sieve. Add the diced black pudding. Reserve.


Remove the parsnips and crush with a fork, add a knob of butter and a few drops of cream. Mix in the parsley and reserve.


Cook the asparagus spears in boiling water with a pinch of salt and sugar added.


To cook the spicy cabbage, wash the cabbage thoroughly and dry well.


In a heavy-bottomed pan, gently fry the bacon, add the roast garlic then the cabbage, rice vinegar and cumin. Mix well and season to taste with salt.


Stir well and cook for two minutes, or until the cabbage is tender. Check the seasoning again and reserve.


To serve, place the spicy cabbage in the center of the plate. Carve the pork into two slices per portion and place on top. Place the crushed parsnip to the right and garnish with asparagus. Spoon on the gravy and black pudding. Garnish with the pork rind and serve.



