

Easy chicken and pea risotto




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
15 people



This cheap risotto is quick and easy because all the stock goes in at once. It's also brilliant for using up leftovers.






By Justine Pattison






Ingredients

2 tbsp mild olive oil or sunflower oil
1 onion, cut in half, coarsely grated
2 garlic cloves, grated
250g/9oz arborio risotto rice
100ml/3½fl oz white wine, dry vermouth or water
1 litre/1¾ pints chicken stock cube, made with 1 stock cube
250g/9oz cooked leftover chicken, skin removed, cut into small pieces
200g/7oz frozen peas
75g/2¾oz Grana Padano or other hard Italian-style cheese, finely grated
25g/1oz butter
freshly ground black pepper




Method


Heat the oil in a large, non-stick saucepan over a medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and fry for 2-3 minutes, stirring occasionally, until softened and just beginning to colour.


Add the risotto rice to the pan and stir well for 30-40 seconds, until the oil has coated the grains of rice.


Pour in half of the wine and allow to bubble for 30-40 seconds, then add all of the stock and bring to the boil, stirring well. Reduce the heat and simmer, uncovered, for 8-10 minutes, stirring frequently, until the rice is almost tender and the risotto is creamy in appearance.


Stir in the remaining wine, the chicken and the frozen peas, then continue to cook, stirring constantly, for a further 4-5 minutes, or until the chicken and peas are heated through and the rice is tender with a slight bite.


Remove the pan from the heat, then stir in the butter and cheese. Season with black pepper. Cover the pan with a lid and set aside for 5 minutes before serving.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: Grana Padano cheese is similar in taste and style to Parmesan but it costs half as much, perfect for those on a budget.

  Tip 2: Adding half of the wine towards the end of the cooking time adds to the flavour of the finished dish.

  Tip 3: Even though all of the stock is added at once, it is still important to stir the risotto regularly as it cooks to achieve a creamy texture.

