

Easy spaghetti Bolognese




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
23 people



A classic Bolognese sauce still tastes great, no matter how simple. Get that depth of flavour by cooking the sauce very gently until it’s super rich. This is designed to be a low cost recipe.

  Try the Eat Well for Less quiz to find out how you could cut your food bills.

  This sauce can be cooked in advance and frozen. Leave to cool completely then pop in a freezer-proof container, it will keep in the freezer for up to 2 months.






By Chris Bell


From Great British Budget Menu






Ingredients

2 tbsp olive oil
400g/14oz beef mince
1 onion, diced
2 garlic cloves, chopped
100g/3½oz carrot, grated
2 x 400g tin chopped tomatoes
400ml/14fl oz stock (made from stock cube. Ideally beef, but any will do)
400g/14oz dried spaghetti
salt and pepper




Method


Heat a large saucepan over a medium heat. Add a tablespoon of olive oil and once hot add the beef mince and a pinch of salt and pepper. Cook the mince until well browned over a medium-high heat (be careful not to burn the mince. It just needs to be a dark brown colour). Once browned, transfer the mince to a bowl and set aside.


Add another tablespoon of oil to the saucepan you browned the mince in and turn the heat to medium. Add the onions and a pinch of salt and fry gently for 5-6 minutes, or until softened and translucent. Add the garlic and cook for another 2 minutes. Add the grated carrot then pour the mince and any juices in the bowl back into the saucepan.


Add the tomatoes to the pan and stir well to mix. Pour in the stock, bring to a simmer and then reduce the temperature to simmer gently for 45 minutes, or until the sauce is thick and rich. Taste and adjust the seasoning as necessary.


When ready to cook the spaghetti, heat a large saucepan of water and add a pinch of salt. Cook according to the packet instructions. Once the spaghetti is cooked through, drain and add to the pan with the bolognese sauce. Mix well and serve.




Recipe Tips
In May 2013 this recipe was costed at £3.22 at Asda, £3.85 at Tesco and £2.70 at Sainsbury’s.
  This recipe is designed to be made in conjunction with a
low-cost store-cupboard.

