

Egg fu yung with roasted red pepper and sweet chilli sauce






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
5 people



Little bits of leftover pork or chicken or a few prawns from the freezer can be swapped into this flexible egg fu yung recipe.






By Ching-He Huang


From Chinese Food Made Easy






Ingredients
For the red pepper and sweet chilli sauce

½ red pepper, seeds removed, flesh sliced into strips
olive oil, for drizzling
salt and freshly ground black pepper
5 tbsp sweet chilli sauce
1 tsp lime juice

For the egg fu yung

3 tbsp groundnut oil
1 small handful shiitake mushrooms or chestnut mushrooms, sliced
1 red pepper, de-seeded and diced
75g/3oz smoked bacon, diced
5 free-range eggs, lightly beaten
dash light soy sauce
pinch freshly ground white pepper
mixed salad leaves, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/390F/Gas 6.


For the red pepper and sweet chilli sauce, place the sliced pepper onto a baking tray, drizzle with olive oil and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Roast in the oven for ten minutes, or until softened, then transfer to a food processor. Add the sweet chilli sauce and lime juice and blend to a smooth paste.


For the egg fu yung, heat a wok until smoking and add the groundnut oil. Add the mushrooms, red pepper and bacon and stir-fry for one minute, or until crisp and golden-brown.


Add the stir-fry mixture to the beaten eggs and stir to combine.


Carefully wipe out any excess oil from the wok with kitchen paper. Place the wok over a high heat and add the remaining oil, swirling to coat the wok. Add half the beaten egg mixture and cook for 1-2 minutes, or until golden-brown on the underside. Flip the omelette over and cook for another minute on the other side, or until golden-brown and cooked through. Season with soy sauce and freshly ground white pepper. Slide onto on a warmed plate and cover with foil. Repeat with the remaining egg mixture.


To serve, arrange the mixed salad leaves on a plate and place the omelette to the side. Spoon over the red pepper and sweet chilli sauce and serve immediately.



