

Baby aubergines with oregano and red onions






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
5 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




I like the way this dish can be eaten as a starter or part of an antipasti table, and even more as a main course, sprinkled with some ricotta salata (the deliciously salted, dried kind) or crumbled feta, or as an accompaniment to meat and fish.

  Each serving provides 140kcal, 1g protein, 3g carbohydrate (of which 3g sugars), 13g fat (of which 2g saturates), 2.5g fibre and 0.8g salt.






By Nigella Lawson


From Nigellissima






Ingredients

500g/1lb 2oz baby aubergines
3 tbsp olive oil
2 tsp dried oregano
1 small red onion, cut into thin half-moons
3 tbsp red wine vinegar
1 tsp sea salt flakes or ½ tsp pouring salt
4 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
1 clove garlic, peeled
1½ tbsp cold water
few sprigs fresh oregano (optional)




Method


Preheat the oven to 250C/475F/Gas 9.


Slice the baby aubergines in half lengthways, keeping the stalks on: this is an aesthetic consideration, nothing to do with flavour, but humour me.


Pour the regular olive oil into a very shallow roasting tin, sprinkle in the dried oregano, add the aubergines, cut-side down, and swirl them gently around. Then turn them so they are cut-side up and put the tray in the hot oven for 15 minutes, by which time they should be tender and turning gold in parts.


As soon as the aubergines are in the oven, put the fine half-moons of red onion in a bowl and cover with the red wine vinegar and salt.


Remove the cooked aubergines to a platter, and now whisk into the vinegary onions the extra-virgin olive oil, then the grated or minced garlic and, finally, the cold water.


Pour this over the warm aubergines, using your hands to arrange the glowingly pink onion over them evenly, then leave it all for about half an hour to cool to room temperature before you eat, scattering with fresh oregano, if you have any, when serving.



