

Elderflower and lemon tart, with strawberry sorbet and meringues



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 8


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Delicate lemon and elderflower tart is combined with fresh strawberries and strawberry sorbet.






By Nathan Outlaw


From Great British Menu






Ingredients
For the strawberry juice and pulp

2kg/4lb 8oz strawberries
100g/3½oz caster sugar

For the strawberry and sparkling wine sorbet

250g/9oz strawberry pulp (made above)
500ml/18fl oz strawberry juice (made above)
250ml/9fl oz sparkling white wine
200ml/7fl oz glucose
200g/7oz caster sugar

For the sweet pastry

160g/5¾oz icing sugar
250g/9oz plain flour, plus extra for rolling out
1 vanilla pod, seeds only
150g/5½oz unsalted butter
5 free-range eggs, yolks only

For the elderflower and lemon tart filling

600ml/20fl oz double cream
2 lemons, zest only
9 free-range eggs
300g/10½oz caster sugar
200ml/7fl oz lemon juice
100ml/3½fl oz elderflower cordial

For the vanilla meringues

4 free-range eggs, whites only
200g/7oz caster sugar
1 vanilla pod, seeds only
1 tsp white wine vinegar
2 tsp cornflour

For the sugared strawberries

100g/3½oz strawberries, diced
50g/2oz caster sugar
1 vanilla pod, seeds only

For the vanilla yoghurt

100ml/3½fl oz Greek yoghurt
30g/1oz icing sugar
½ vanilla pod, seeds only

For the elderflower and lemon syrup

100ml/3½fl oz lemon juice and elderflower cordial
50g/2oz glucose
½ vanilla pod, seeds only

To serve

handful fresh strawberries




Method


For the strawberry juice and pulp, wash and halve the strawberries, and mix them with the sugar in a stainless steel bowl. Cling film the top and place over a pan of boiling water for two hours.


Pass the cooked strawberries through a sieve, keeping the juice and the pulp.


For the sorbet, place all the sorbet ingredients into a saucepan and bring up to a simmer, and cook for five minutes. Leave to cool then place into an ice cream machine and churn until frozen and set. Transfer to a freezer until needed.


For the sweet pastry, mix together the icing sugar, flour, vanilla and butter in a food processor until the texture of fine crumbs. Add four egg yolks and blend lightly until combined. Remove the pastry from the processor, wrap in cling film and leave to rest for two hours in the fridge.


Dust a work surface with flour and roll out the pastry to the thickness of a pound coin. Line a tart mould (roughly 35cm/14in length x 11cm/4½in width x 2.5cm/1in depth) with the pastry and place back into the fridge for an hour.


Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 3, bring the pastry out of the fridge and prick the base all over with a fork, bake in the oven for 15 minutes or until it starts to turn golden-brown. Lightly whisk the remaining egg yolk, remove the tart mould from the oven and while still hot brush the pastry all over with the egg yolk. Return the pastry to the oven for another five minutes. Then remove and set aside to cool.


For the elderflower and lemon tart filling, heat the cream and lemon zest in a saucepan until it begins to simmer. Whisk the mixture. In a separate bowl, whisk together the eggs and sugar.


Pour the hot cream over the eggs and sugar and whisk to combine. Allow the mixture to cool, then mix in the lemon juice and cordial.


Turn the oven down to 110C/225F/Gas ¼. Pour the lemon and elderflower mixture into the pastry case and bake in the oven for 20 minutes. The tart is done when it has just a slight wobble in the centre, if this isn’t the case, return to the oven and check every couple of minutes until this is achieved.


Leave to the tart to cool completely then remove from the mould.


For the vanilla meringues, preheat the oven to 110C/225F/Gas ¼. Whip the whites until stiff then add two-thirds of the sugar and continue to whisk for two minutes.


Add the final third of the sugar with the vanilla seeds and whisk for another 30 seconds. Fold the vinegar and cornflour into the meringue and place into a piping bag with a plain nozzle.


Line a baking tray with parchment paper and pipe out the meringue in 3cm/1in diameter blobs. Bake the meringues in the oven for 25-30 minutes, or until crisp but not coloured.


For the sugared strawberries, mix the strawberries with the sugar and vanilla in a bowl.


For the vanilla yoghurt, mix all the ingredients together in a bowl.


For the elderflower and lemon syrup, place all the ingredients into a pan and bring to the boil, simmer for two minutes.


To serve, place a slice of the tart in the centre of a serving plate, dot the meringues and fresh strawberries around. Place a spoonful of the sugared strawberries by the side of the tart and top with the sorbet. Finish with a few dots of vanilla yoghurt around and a drizzle of the syrup all over.



