

Bacon chops with whole roasted broccoli and three-cheese sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 2



A hearty meal for two of boiled bacon chops, garlic roasted broccoli and a strongly flavoured cheese and mustard sauce.






By Tom Kerridge


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the roasted broccoli

1 whole broccoli
6 garlic cloves, grated, mixed with a little oil
1 bunch fresh thyme, leaves and stalks separated
100g/3½oz butter, diced
pinch freshly grated nutmeg

For the three-cheese sauce

30g/1oz plain white flour
30g/1oz butter
285ml/10fl oz milk
55g/2oz Stinking Bishop cheese, diced
55g/2oz Gruyère cheese, grated
55g/2oz strong cheese of your choice, grated
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 tbsp English mustard
1 tbsp crème fraîche

For the bacon chop

75g/2½oz butter
2 x 250g/9oz bacon chops
1 tbsp chopped parsley

For the potatoes

300g/11oz new potatoes, boiled
1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 onion, finely sliced
1 tsp smoked paprika
1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley




Method


For the roasted broccoli, preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


Remove the stalk from the broccoli and cut it in half lengthways. Peel the hard woody bits from it. Set it to one side.


Rub the grated garlic onto the broccoli head and place it in a deep roasting tray. Sprinkle over with the thyme stalks and top with the butter.


Roast for 35-45 minutes until just cooked. Baste in the butter 3-4 times whilst roasting.


Season with fresh nutmeg and set to one side.


For the three-cheese sauce, melt the butter in a saucepan and then stir in the flour and cook for 1-2 minutes. Take the pan off the heat and gradually stir in the milk until you have a smooth sauce. Return to the heat and, stirring all the time, bring to the boil.


When the sauce is smooth, stir in the cheeses until they are melted. Season with salt and pepper and pass through a sieve. Stir in the mustard and crème fraîche and set to one side.


For the bacon chops, put the butter in a pan with 100ml/3½fl oz of water and bring to the boil. Add the broccoli stalk halves and bacon chops and cook until the stalks are tender and the bacon is cooked through. You may need to add a little more water. Drain and add the chopped parsley.


Heat the oil in a clean pan and gently fry the onion and cooked new potatoes together until golden-brown and hot through. Season with the smoked paprika.


Serve the bacon, broccoli stems, roasted broccoli and potatoes with the sauce.



