

Fillet steak with a spiced herb butter and fondant potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Fillet steak served the classic French way – topped with melted herb butter.






By John Burton Race


From Chefs: Put Your Menu Where Your Mouth Is






Ingredients
For the spiced herb butter

200g/7oz unsalted butter, softened
1 small shallot, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
2 tsp capers, finely chopped
2 tsp finely chopped gherkins
1 tsp finely chopped anchovies
1 tsp finely chopped chives
1 tsp finely chopped chervil
1 tsp finely chopped tarragon
1 tsp finely chopped flatleaf parsley
1 tsp thyme leaves
1 bay leaf
2 tsp curry powder

For the fondant potatoes

4 medium Maris Piper potatoes, peeled
50g/1¾oz unsalted butter
300ml/10fl oz fresh chicken stock

For the glazed vegetables

150g/5½oz baby carrots
50g/1¾oz caster sugar
50ml/1¾fl oz chicken stock
75g/2½oz unsalted butter
150g/5½oz sugar snap peas

For the steak

2 tbsp olive oil
4 x 140g-175g/5-6oz fillet steaks




Method


For the spiced herb butter, place all the ingredients in a large food processor and blend until smooth. Lay a piece of aluminium foil on the work surface and lay the blended butter in a line along the foil. Roll the butter in the foil into a cylinder, tighten at both ends and place in the fridge to set.


For the fondant potatoes, trim both ends of the potatoes and use a peeler to shape them into a barrel shape. Heat a large frying pan and add the butter. Once melted, add the potatoes and fry until golden-brown.


Add the chicken stock and cook for 20-30 minutes until soft, but not falling apart - they need to hold together.


To make the glazed vegetables, place the carrots, sugar, chicken stock and butter in a saucepan over a medium heat and cook for 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.


Meanwhile, place a small saucepan on the heat and add water. Once boiling, add the sugar snaps. Cook for 4-5 minutes, drain and refresh in cold water before setting aside.


For the steak, place a large frying pan over a high heat. Once hot, add the oil and then cook the steak for two minutes on each side, or until cooked to your liking. Place a slice of the spiced herb butter on top of the steaks and place under the grill for 1-2 minutes, or until the butter has melted.


To serve, place a frying pan over a medium heat and add a little of the carrot cooking liquor. Add the carrots and sugar snap peas and cook for a couple of minutes, or until hot.


Place the vegetables at one side of each plate and a fondant potato at the opposite side. Place the steak in the middle and serve immediately.



