

Flower power pizza




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes 1 30cm/12in pizza


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




The power in this gluten-free pizza comes from the protein-rich almonds, egg white and buckwheat, while the ‘flower’ comes from the cauliflower used to make the pizza base. Try adding herbs and toppings of your choice.

  This pizza provides 985 kcal, 46g protein, 43g carbohydrate (of which 8.5g sugars), 70g fat (of which 24g saturates), 6g fibre and 4.8g salt.






By Hemsley + Hemsley


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the pizza base

butter, ghee or coconut oil, for greasing
140g/5oz cauliflower (about ¼ of a head without the stalk)
1 egg white, beaten
50g/1¾oz ground almonds
40g/1½oz buckwheat flour
½ tsp sea salt
½ tsp black pepper
¼ tsp bicarbonate of soda

For the topping

1 medium mozzarella ball
2 handfuls fresh tomatoes (a mixture of colours look good)
chilli flakes (optional)
handful fresh basil
drizzle of olive oil, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 170C/190C fan/350F/Gas 4. Line a baking tray with baking parchment and lightly grease with butter, ghee or coconut oil.


Grate the cauliflower into rice-sized pieces using a hand grater or food processor.


Put all the pizza base ingredients in a bowl and mix well with a spoon, or add to the food processor and blend, to form a sticky dough.


Using the back of a spoon, spread the dough out onto the greased parchment on the tray, shaping it into a circle 30cm/12in wide.


Bake in the oven for about five minutes, then flip it over and return to the oven for another two minutes.


Pull the mozzarella ball apart into small pieces and arrange over the base of the pizza.


Slice the tomatoes into 1cm/½in thick slices and arrange over the pizza. Add the chilli flakes, if desired.


Bake the pizza for 10-15 minutes more until the mozzarella is melted and bubbling.


Sprinkle the basil over the top of the pizza before serving and drizzle with olive oil.



