

Fresh farfalle with spinach, gorgonzola and walnuts



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




A really simple, elegant little veggie dish that can be ready in minutes if you opt for shop-bought pasta.






By Angela Hartnett


From Spring Kitchen with Tom Kerridge






Ingredients
For the pasta

200g/7oz 00 flour, plus extra for dusting
2 free-range eggs
pinch of salt

For the spinach, gorgonzola and walnuts

200g/7oz Tenderstem broccoli, cut into florets
2 tbsp olive oil
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
large handful spinach
50g/1¾oz gorgonzola, or a similar vegetarian blue cheese (such as dolcelatte)
1 tbsp chopped mint
25g/1oz walnuts, broken into pieces




Method


For the pasta, in a food processor mix the flour, eggs and a pinch of salt together until the mixture begins to hold together. If the dough is too dry add a little bit of water.


Dust a wooden board or clean work surface with a little flour and knead the mixture until it forms a dough. Wrap the dough in cling film and place in the fridge for 30 minutes.


Dust the pasta with a little four, then roll it through a pasta machine until it is about 2mm thick (around setting number five on the pasta machine). Alternatively roll out the dough using a rolling pin.


Cut the pasta dough into rectangles approximately 5x2.5cm/2x1in. Pinch the rectangles in the middle to form a bow shape. (This can be done up to 24 hours before cooking the dish.)


For the spinach, gorgonzola and walnuts, blanch the broccoli in a pan of boiling water and then refresh in a bowl of cold water and drain.


Heat a tablespoon of oil in a pan and add the garlic. After a minute add the spinach and broccoli. Tear the cheese into bite-size pieces and add to the spinach.


Meanwhile, dry fry the walnuts in a separate pan.


Cook the pasta in a pan of boiling water for two minutes. Drain thoroughly.


Add the drained pasta to the spinach, stir through the mint and top with the walnuts.



