

Fresh pasta with a classic ragú sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
6 people



Allowing the ragú to simmer for a few hours is the essential element here, so don’t be tempted to rush it. If you're short of time you could buy fresh pasta and finish off the ragú in a slow cooker.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a pasta machine with a cutting attachment of your choice.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the fresh pasta

250g/9oz 00 flour
4 medium free-range eggs
250g/9oz fine semolina flour

For the classic ragú sauce

2 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 large carrot, peeled and finely chopped
2 sticks celery
handful basil leaves
500g/1lb 2oz beef mince
500g/1lb 2oz pork mince
2 tbsp tomato purée
100ml/3½oz red wine
3 x 400g/14oz tins san marzano tomatoes

For the green salad

2 little gem lettuces, washed and leaves separated
1 head frisée lettuce, central leaves washed and removed
3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 lemon, juice only
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

75g/2½oz parmesan cheese, grated




Method


For the fresh pasta, place the flour and eggs into a food processor and pulse until well combined and the mixture comes together as a dough. Place the dough in a bowl, cover with cling film and place in the fridge to rest for 30 minutes.


Cut the pasta dough in half and pass it through a pasta machine at its widest setting. Repeat this process, decreasing the roller setting down grade by grade with each pass until the dough is thin enough to pass through your cutter.


Add your cutter to the pasta machine and pass the pasta through the machine to make your shape. Dust the pasta with a little semolina.


Repeat the process with the remaining dough, then place the shapes onto a plate and chill in the fridge until ready to use.


For the classic ragú sauce, heat a large casserole dish and add the oil. Once hot, add the onion and garlic and gently fry for 2-3 minutes.


Add the carrot, celery and basil and cook for a further two minutes.


Add the meat and cook until brown.


Add the tomato purée cook for a minute, then add the wine. Cook until the liquid is reduced by half, then add the tomatoes and cook for a couple of hours with the lid on.


For the green salad, place the lettuce leaves in a large bowl. Whisk together the oil, lemon juice, salt and pepper. Pour over the salad leaves and toss to coat.


For the pasta, in a large pan of salted boiling water cook the pasta until al dente.


To serve, add the sauce to the cooked pasta and toss until all the pasta is coated.


Serve in a warm bowls topped with the parmesan cheese. Place the salad in a separate bowl and serve alongside.



