

Fried aubergine with fennel yoghurt




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6-8


Recommended by
6 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Crunchy and moreish, these aubergine cakes make a fine vegetarian starter. Or cut them into chip shapes for an informal snack.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the fennel yoghurt

2 heads fennel, quartered
1 tbsp olive oil, plus extra for blending
2 cloves garlic, peeled
1 lemon, juice only
1 tbsp fennel seeds, toasted
300g/10½oz thick Greek yoghurt

For the aubergines

250g/9oz breadcrumbs
50g/2oz pecorino, grated
1 tsp chilli flakes
salt and freshly ground black pepper
4 aubergines, cut into 2cm/1in rounds
3 free-range eggs, beaten
100g/3½oz plain flour
vegetable oil, for deep frying
watercress, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


For the fennel yoghurt, heat the oil in an ovenproof casserole over a medium heat. Add the garlic and fennel and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until golden-brown and slightly softened.


Add the lemon juice to the mixture, stir well, then cover and transfer to the oven. Roast for 15-20 minutes, or until the fennel is tender. Set aside to cool.


For the aubergine chips, mix together the breadcrumbs, percorino, chilli flakes, salt and pepper in a shallow bowl.


Place the plain flour onto a shallow plate and beat the eggs in a shallow bowl.


Roll the aubergine sticks in the flour, then dip into the egg and finally coat in the breadcrumb mixture.


Heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer to 150C/300F. Alternatively, heat the oil in a deep heavy-based frying pan until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden-brown when dropped into it. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Transfer the coated aubergine sticks to the hot oil to deep-fry for about six minutes, or until golden-brown.


Remove from the oil with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper.


Combine the roasted fennel, roasted garlic and any roasting juices with the fennel seeds in a blender. You may need to add some more olive oil or lemon juice, to taste. Blend until the mixture is a smooth purée.


Pass the puréed fennel through a sieve and stir into the Greek yoghurt.


Serve the fennel yoghurt in a bowl and with the fried aubergine sticks and watercress on the side.



