

Frozen chocolate chip cookies






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 18 very large cookies


Recommended by
15 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This biscuit mixture can be frozen and then you simply slice off cookies to order as and when you feel like making them. A final sprinkle of sea salt brings out the chocolate flavour.






By Donal Skehan






Ingredients

275g/9¾oz butter
275g/9¾oz soft light brown sugar
225g/8oz granulated sugar
2 large free-range eggs
1 tbsp vanilla extract
475g/1lb 1oz plain flour
2 tsp baking powder
300g/10½oz good-quality milk chocolate, chopped roughly into chunks
sea salt




Method


Put the butter and sugars into a large mixing bowl. Beat together with an electric hand whisk until smooth and light in colour.


Break in the eggs one at a time, mixing as you break in each egg. Once the eggs are combined, add the vanilla extract.


Sift in the flour and baking powder and mix in with a wooden spoon until completely incorporated. Add the chocolate chunks and mix in until thoroughly combined. Divide the dough in half.


Place each half onto a large sheet of cling film. Roll the dough into a wide sausage shape and wrap in the cling film, twisting the ends to seal. Each sausage will make nine large cookies (but you can roll them smaller and make more). The dough sausages can be frozen at this point. However if you wish to bake them straightaway, chill the dough in the fridge for 30 minutes before use.


Once ready to use the cookie dough, remove from the freezer and allow to warm up enough to slice. Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


Slice the dough sausage into nine discs and place onto a non-stick baking tray or a tray that has been lined with baking parchment.


Sprinkle each cookie with a tiny pinch of salt and bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes, or until they are golden-brown on the edge and slightly paler in the centre.


Remove from the oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool before serving.



