

Fruit meringue gâteau






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6-8


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Meringue desserts are easy to prepare ahead and always make a statement. Fill this with your favourite seasonal fruit.







By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients
For the meringues

6 free-range egg whites
300g/10½oz caster sugar

For the filling

1 litre/1¾ pints double cream
1 tbsp vanilla bean paste

To assemble

500g/1lb 2oz strawberries, hulls removed, cut in half
4 plums, cut in half, stones removed, finely sliced
5 ripe figs, cut into small wedges

To serve

100g/3½oz caster sugar
2 tbsp toasted flaked almonds




Method


Preheat the oven to 110C/90C Fan/Gas ½.


For the meringues, using a cake tin as a template, draw 4 x 20cm/8in circles onto 4 sheets of silicone paper or baking paper. Turn them over and place one sheet onto each of 4 flat baking trays.


Whisk the egg whites in a bowl until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed. Add the sugar and continue to whisk until the mixture is smooth and glossy and stiff peaks form when the whisk is removed.


Spoon the egg white mixture into a piping bag fitted with a 1cm/½in plain nozzle. Use a dot of the mixture to stick each corner of the baking paper to the tray. (This stops the paper and meringue being blown about by the oven fan.) Pipe the mixture inside each circular template, starting in the centre and working out to fill it. Smooth each meringue disc with a wet palette knife.


Cook the meringues in the oven for 2 hours. Remove from the oven to cool completely before assembling.


For the filling, whisk the cream and vanilla bean paste in a bowl until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed.


To assemble, place one meringue disc into a cake stand or large serving plate. Spread over one-third of the vanilla cream, then scatter over one-quarter of the sliced fruit. Top with a second meringue disc. Repeat the layering process, topping the last meringue disc with the remaining fruit.


To serve, melt the sugar in a heavy-based frying pan until it starts to caramelise and turn golden-brown. Stir in the flaked almonds until completely coated. Drizzle the sugared nut mixture on top of the gâteau. Chill in the fridge for about 1 hour before serving.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: Make sure your bowl and whisk are very clean, free of grease and completely dry, as any water or grease will affect the meringue.
  Tip 2: How will you know when your whisked egg whites are the correct consistency? You should hear your electric whisk drop down a gear due to the thickness of the mixture.

