

Garlic and chilli king crab with steamed rice



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people



James Martin shows you how to make your own sweet chilli sauce to add a kick to this crab stir fry.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the garlic and chilli sauce

2 red chillies, finely sliced
4 garlic cloves, finely sliced
75g/2½oz caster sugar
75ml/2½fl oz rice wine vinegar

For the steamed rice

350g/12oz basmati rice
2 tsp sea salt

For the chilli crab

1 tbsp vegetable oil
5cm/2in piece fresh ginger, finely shredded
3 garlic cloves, chopped
2 red bird’s-eye chillies, finely chopped
125ml/4½fl oz tomato sauce
75ml/2½fl oz garlic and chilli sauce (from above)
75ml/2½fl oz hoisin sauce
3 tbsp fish sauce
1 tbsp caster sugar
500g/1lb 2oz cooked crab claws, lightly crushed

To serve

2 banana leaves, each cut in half and softened over a naked flame
2 tbsp fresh coriander




Method


For the garlic and chilli sauce, place all the ingredients in a small saucepan with two tablespoons water. Bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for a few minutes until the sugar is dissolved. Set aside to cool.


For the steamed rice, add 500ml/18fl oz water to a pan then add the rice and salt. Cook on a low heat until all the water has disappeared. Place a lid on top and set aside for 20 minutes.


For the chilli crab, heat a wok until hot and add the vegetable oil, ginger, garlic and chillies and stir fry for two minutes.


Meanwhile, whisk the tomato sauce, garlic and chilli sauce, hoisin sauce and fish sauce together in a bowl. Add the sugar and 75ml/2½fl oz water and mix to combine. Add to the wok and bring to the boil.


Add the crab then reduce the heat and simmer for 3-4 minutes until the sauce has thickened slightly and the crab is heated through.


To serve, place a softened banana leaf on each serving plate and spoon on the crab and the rice next to it. Garnish with chopped coriander.



