

Garlic mushrooms and cured ham on toasted brioche






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
3 people



Cured ham and wild mushrooms are some of the most beautiful ingredients you can get your hands on. Serve them on toasted brioche for a little taste of luxury.






By Mary Berry


From Mary Berry's Absolute Favourites






Ingredients

1 tbsp oil
6 slices dry-cured ham, cut in half
50g/1¾oz butter
6 thick slices brioche
4 fat garlic cloves, crushed
250g/9oz chestnut mushrooms, sliced
100g/ 3½oz shiitake mushrooms, halved if large
75g/2¾oz oyster mushrooms, halved if large
150g/5½oz enoki mushrooms
2 tbsp full-fat crème fraîche
chopped fresh parsley, to garnish
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


Add the oil to a large, heavy-based frying pan and fry the ham over a high heat for 1-2 minutes until crisp. You may need to do this in two batches to avoid overcrowding the pan. Remove and set aside.


Turn the heat down to medium and melt about a third of the butter in the pan. Fry the brioche slices until golden-brown on each side, you may have to do this in batches. Remove and set aside.


Melt another third of the butter in the pan, add the garlic, chestnut and shiitake mushrooms and fry over a high heat for 2–3 minutes. Lower the heat, cover with a lid and cook for a further 2 minutes. Remove the lid and fry over a high heat until tender and golden-brown, tossing until dry and any liquid has evaporated.


Add the remaining butter, along with the oyster and enoki mushrooms, and fry for 1–2 minutes until golden-brown. Season well with salt and pepper. Stir in the crème fraîche.


Place a slice of toasted brioche on each plate, spoon over some of the garlic mushrooms, followed by a slice of fried ham and a sprinkling of chopped parsley. Serve immediately.




Recipe Tips
Enoki mushrooms can usually be purchased in supermarkets in a wild mushroom selection box.

