

Gazpacho






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian







By Gordon Jones


From Virgin Cooks






Ingredients
For the soup

1kg/2lb 4oz ripe tomatoes, roughly chopped
1 green pepper, seeds removed, chopped
1 small red onion or 6 spring onions, chopped
½ cucumber, peeled
2 large cloves garlic, peeled and chopped
1 small handful fresh basil leaves
50ml/2fl oz extra virgin olive oil
1 tbsp sherry vinegar
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the garnish

1 day-old baguette, thinly sliced
olive oil
pinch paprika
4 ice cubes
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 spring onions or ½ red onion, finely chopped
½ red pepper, seeds removed, finely chopped
½ yellow pepper, seeds removed, finely chopped
fresh basil leaves




Method


For the soup, place all of the vegetables, garlic and basil for into a food processor and blend until smooth. Pass the mixture through a fine sieve to remove most of the pulp and skin, which you should then discard.


Lightly rinse the bowl of the food processor to remove any pulp and skin, then pour the sieved soup back into the food processor. Blend again, while slowly pouring in the extra virgin olive oil through the feeder, followed by the sherry vinegar, until well combined. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Transfer the soup to a container and chill, covered, in the fridge until ready to serve.


For the garnish, preheat the grill to high.


Place the slices of baguette onto a baking tray and drizzle with olive oil. Season the baguette slices with paprika and salt, then toast under the grill for 1-2 minutes on both sides, or until golden-brown all over.


To serve, place an ice cube into each serving bowl and ladle over the soup. Float the crisp baguette slices over the soup, scatter over the finely chopped spring onions and peppers and garnish with a few basil leaves.



