

Almond and lemon polenta cake with orange mascarpone




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 8-10


Recommended by
6 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Almond and polenta give this cake a wonderful texture. Served with zesty lemon icing, orange cream cheese and caramelised satsumas.






By Lesley Waters


From Chefs: Put Your Menu Where Your Mouth Is






Ingredients
For the cake

225g/8oz unsalted butter
225g/8oz caster sugar
3 free-range eggs, beaten
225g/8oz ground almonds
115g/4oz instant polenta
1 tsp baking powder (gluten-free if necessary)
3 lemons, zest and juice only
icing sugar, for dusting

For the glaze

2 lemons, juice only
3 tbsp caster sugar

For the orange mascarpone

250g/9oz mascarpone
2 oranges, zest only, plus splash of juice
50-75g/1¾-2½oz icing sugar, sieved

For the caramelised satsumas

75-100g/3-4oz caster sugar, for dusting
100ml/3½fl oz orange juice
4 satsumas, peeled and cut in half horizontally




Method


Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 3. Grease and line a 25cm/10in cake tin with parchment paper.


Place the butter and sugar in a large mixing bowl and beat with an electric whisk until pale and light. Gradually add the eggs, whisking all the time. Using a large metal spoon, stir in the ground almonds, then fold in the polenta, baking powder, lemon zest and juice and mix to combine.


Spoon the mixture into the prepared cake tin and bake for about 1 hour 15 minutes, or until just set and golden-brown.


Meanwhile, to make the lemon glaze, put the lemon juice and sugar into a bowl and mix well. When the cake is cooked, prick the surface and pour over the lemon mixture. Let it cool in the tin for 15 minutes.


To make the orange mascarpone, gently beat the mascarpone, orange zest, splash of orange juice and icing sugar together until smooth. Set aside.


For the caramelised satsumas, heat a large frying pan over a medium heat and add the sugar and orange juice. Reduce until thickened and syrupy, add the satsuma halves and cook gently for a few minutes on each side until softened and caramelised. Reserve the syrup to serve.


Remove the cake from the tin and cut into wedges to serve. Transfer to a plate, dust with icing sugar and serve with a quenelle of orange mascarpone cream, the caramelised satsuma halves and drizzle the orange syrup over to serve.



