

Baked burrito




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



These baked burritos make a tasty Mexican meal with minimum fuss. If cooking with kids, get them to help with rolling up the burritos and spreading oil on the wraps before baking. Serve with guacamole or salsa.






By Aaron Craze






Ingredients

1 small onion
oil, for cooking
600g/1lb 5oz skinless, boneless turkey breast or thigh
3 tsp Mexican seasoning, such as mild taco seasoning
2 tomatoes, halved
200g tin of sweetcorn, drained
200g/7oz grated cheese, such as Cheddar
4 large soft tortilla wraps
4 tbsp natural yoghurt, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 4.


Peel and roughly chop the onion. Heat a large frying pan over a medium heat, then add a dash of oil and the onion. Cook for 7-10 minutes, or until soft and translucent but not brown. Reduce the heat if the onion starts to colour.


Cut the turkey meat into 2½cm/1in cubes and add them and the Mexican seasoning to the onion. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring now and again, or until the turkey is cooked through with no sign of pink juices when you cut into the largest cube.


Grate the cut sides of the tomatoes into the pan, using a cheese grater, and stir. Discard the skin once the flesh is grated. Increase the heat to medium-high and cook for 3-4 minutes, or until the tomato mixture has thickened and coats the turkey. Add the sweetcorn and stir.


Put the tortilla wraps on a chopping board and spoon the meat mixture into the middle of the wraps. Sprinkle with the grated cheese. Fold the sides of the wraps over the filling, then roll the wraps up from bottom to top to enclose the filling completely.


Put the wraps, folded side-down on a baking tray. Put a little oil into your hand and gently rub it over the wraps. Place in the oven and bake for 7 minutes, then turn the wraps over and bake for a further 5 minutes, or until golden and crisp all over.


Serve each burritos with a tablespoon of yoghurt on the side for dipping.




Recipe Tips
If you’re making this for a vegetarian then you can replace the turkey with a tin of cooked mixed beans (e.g. kidney beans, cannellini beans and butter beans etc.), drained. You can buy ones already flavoured with a little Mexican spice, which would be absolutely delicious.



  This is a great way to use up leftover cooked meat; it doesn’t have to be turkey. Try with chopped leftover roast chicken or beef or leftover bolognaise sauce or chilli con carne.



  For a healthier burrito, use a wholemeal wrap, reduce the amount of cheese and add some extra veggies.

