

Glamorgan sausages with red onion and chilli relish




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
24 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These vegetarian leek and cheese sausages are delicious and full of flavour. Perfect comfort food.






By The Hairy Bikers


From Hairy Bikers' Best of British






Ingredients
For the sausages

25g/1oz butter
115g/4oz leeks, trimmed, finely sliced (prepared weight)
175g/6oz fresh white breadcrumbs
2 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme
150g/5oz Caerphilly cheese or Welsh Cheddar, finely grated
2 free-range eggs, separated
1 tsp English mustard
½ tsp flaked sea salt
5 tbsp sunflower oil
freshly ground black pepper

For the red onion and chilli relish

2 tbsp sunflower oil
2 medium red onions, finely sliced
1 red chilli, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, crushed
75g/2½oz light brown muscovado sugar
5 tbsp white wine vinegar




Method


For the sausages, melt the butter in a large non-stick frying pan and fry the leek gently for 8-10minutes, or until very soft but not coloured.


Put 100g/3½oz of the breadcrumbs, the parsley, thyme and cheese in a large mixing bowl and mix until well combined. Beat the egg yolks with the mustard, salt and plenty of freshly ground black pepper in a separate bowl.


Remove the frying pan from the heat and tip the leeks into the bowl with the breadcrumbs. Add the egg yolks and mix together well with a large wooden spoon until well combined. Divide the leek mixture into eight portions and roll into sausage shapes. Place the sausages onto a tray lined with clingfilm.


Whisk the egg whites lightly in a bowl with a large metal whisk until just frothy. Sprinkle 40g/1½oz breadcrumbs over a large plate. Dip the sausages one at a time into the beaten egg and roll in the breadcrumbs until evenly coated, then place on the baking tray. Chill the sausages in the fridge for 30 minutes.


Meanwhile, for the relish, heat the oil in a large non-stick saucepan and fry the onions for 20 minutes, or until very soft and just beginning to colour. Add the chilli and garlic to the pan and cook for a further five minutes, stirring regularly.


Sprinkle with the sugar and pour over the vinegar. Bring to a simmer and cook for five further minutes, or until the liquid is well reduced and the relish becomes thick and glossy. Remove from the heat, set aside to cool for a few minutes then tip into a serving dish.


Heat the oil into a large non-stick frying pan and fry the sausages over a medium heat for 10-12 minutes, turning regularly until golden-brown and crisp. Serve the sausages with a good spoonful of chilli and onion relish and some thinly sliced runner beans.




Recipe Tips
Using half a chilli will give a mildly spiced relish, so add the whole chilli if you like a bit more heat. Using the seeds will make it hotter too.

