

Goats' cheese ravioli with sage and tomato sauce



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By James Martin


From Stately Suppers






Ingredients
For the pasta dough

225g/8oz plain or '00' flour, plus extra for dusting
2 free-range eggs
2 free-range egg yolks
1 tbsp olive oil
2 pinches salt

For the filling

200g/7oz baby spinach, wilted in a pan and chopped
150g/5½oz soft goats' cheese, crumbled
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 free-range egg, beaten

For the sauce

100g/3½oz unsalted butter
1 shallot, finely chopped
10 sage leaves, chopped
½ clove garlic, chopped
few sprigs parsley, chopped
4 tomatoes, skinned, deseeded and finely chopped




Method


To prepare the pasta dough, place the flour, whole eggs, yolks, oil and salt in a large bowl and, using your hands, knead until you have a firm dough. Cover with clingfilm and place in the fridge for at least 5 hours.


Meanwhile, make the filling. Mix the chopped spinach with the goats' cheese, then season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and leave to one side.


Next make the ravioli. When the dough has rested, put the dough through a pasta machine until you have two large flat rectangular shapes, approximately 60cm/24 inches long. Keep dusting with flour so the dough doesn't stick.


Place teaspoons of the spinach and goats' cheese mixture on the dough roughly 4cm/1½ inches apart. Glaze in between each spoon of filling with the beaten egg, then place the second pasta sheet on top. Press along the edges of each spoon of filling with your fingers. Using a pastry wheel, cut into squares to create a ravioli shape.


To cook, simply place the ravioli in boiling salted water for 2 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and keep warm.


For the sauce, heat the butter in a frying pan, and when it starts to froth and turn golden brown, add the shallot, sage, garlic, parsley and tomatoes. Cook for a minute or two and serve at once with the cooked ravioli.



