

Griddled lamb chops with pine nuts and pomegranate tabbouleh



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people



Jame Martin works his magic on these lamb chops brushing them with oil-dipped rosemary. Served with spicy tabbouleh.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the tabbouleh

175g/6oz bulgur wheat
700ml/1¼ pints chicken stock, warmed
2 chipotle dried chillies
1 tsp fenugreek seeds
1 tsp cumin seeds
1 tsp coriander seeds
2 garlic cloves, roughly chopped
2 shallots, roughly chopped
2 red chillies, seeds removed, roughly chopped
2 tbsp olive oil or rapeseed oil
200g/7oz toasted pine nuts
1 pomegranate seeds
½ bunch fresh mint, roughly chopped
½ bunch fresh coriander, roughly chopped
1 lemon, zest and juice
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the griddled lamb chops

8 lamb chops
½ bunch rosemary, tied with string
50ml/2fl oz olive oil




Method


For the bulgur wheat, place the bulgur wheat in a saucepan and cover with warm chicken stock. Simmer for 15-20 minutes, or until cooked.


Drain the bulgur wheat, allow to cool and add to a large bowl.


Soak the chipotle dried chillies in hot water for five minutes until soft, remove and add to a food processor.


Heat a small frying pan and heat the fenugreek, cumin and coriander seeds until they start to give off a strong smell, then add them to the food processor.


Add the garlic, shallots, chillies and oil to the food processor and blend until smooth. Add a couple of tablespoons of the mix to the bulgur wheat and stir.


Add the pine nuts, pomegranate, mint, coriander, lemon juice and zest and finish with salt and pepper and a little olive oil. Set aside.


For the griddled lamb chops, heat a large griddle pan and dip the rosemary bunch in the olive oil. Brush the chops with the oil-soaked rosemary. Season with salt and pepper.


Cook the chops for a couple of minutes each side continuing to brush with the rosemary and oil.


To serve, place the tabbouleh in the centre of each of four plates and lean the lamb chops up against the tabbouleh.



