

Griddled sirloin steak with a brioche, garlic and parsley crumb, grilled tomatoes and a green salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4



Try griddled sirloin steak with this sweet herby salad dressing, topped with fried brioche crumbs for added texture.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the sirloin steak

2 tbsp unsalted butter
½ brioche loaf, broken into crumbs
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
4 tbsp roughly chopped flatleaf parsley
4 sirloin steaks
2 tbsp olive oil

For the grilled tomatoes and green salad

8 plum tomatoes, cut in half
2 tbsp olive oil
4 heads Little Gem lettuce
2 avocadoes, peeled, stone removed, sliced

For the house dressing

30g/1oz French dressing
30g/1oz honey
30g/1oz white balsamic vinegar
500ml/18fl oz vegetable oil
5g finely chopped shallot
½ garlic clove, sliced
1 tsp chopped basil
1 tsp chopped thyme leaves
1 tsp chopped chives
1 tsp chopped parsley




Method


For the sirloin steak, heat a large frying pan and add the butter. Once melted, add the brioche crumbs and garlic and cook for a couple of minutes or until the crumbs are golden-brown and the garlic cooked.


Transfer to a food processor and add the parsley. Blend until the breadcrumbs are bright green.


In the meantime, heat a large griddle pan and rub the steak with olive oil. Place on the griddle and cook on both sides for 2-3 minutes, or until cooked to your liking. Set aside to rest before serving.


For the tomatoes and green salad, preheat the grill to high.


Place the halved tomatoes onto a grill tray and drizzle with oil. Put under the grill for a couple of minutes or until cooked.


Once cooked, remove from the grill and sprinkle over some of the green crumbs.


For the house dressing, add all the ingredients to a blender and pulse until smooth.


To make the salad, place the lettuce and avocado in a large bowl. Just before serving, pour the dressing over the salad and mix.


To serve, slice the rested steaks and place on serving plates alongside the crumbed tomatoes and green salad. Sprinkle the remaining crumbs over the steaks.



