

Tom Kerridge’s butternut squash and sage risotto






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This simple but luxurious dish will impress your guests with its earthy flavour and creamy texture.






By Tom Kerridge






Ingredients

30g/1oz unsalted butter
2 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
280g/10oz arborio rice
200ml/7fl oz dry white wine
1.1 litres/1 pint 16fl oz warm vegetable stock (made with stock cubes)
1 small (or ½ large) butternut squash, peeled, deseeded, cut into small cubes
small handful fresh sage leaves, thinly sliced
100g/3½oz Parmesan (or a similar vegetarian hard cheese), finely grated
150g/5oz mozzarella, drained, cut into small cubes
30g/1¼oz pine nuts, to serve
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


Heat the butter and half the oil in a frying pan over a low-medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and fry for 8-10 minutes, until softened but not coloured. Add the rice and fry for 1-2 minutes, stirring constantly until it is coated in the oil.


Pour in the wine and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat slightly until the wine is just simmering, then cook until two-thirds of the wine has evaporated.


Add a ladleful of the warm stock to the pan and return to a simmer, reducing the heat if the liquid starts to bubble too fiercely, to prevent the rice from cooking too quickly. When most of the stock has evaporated, add another ladleful. Cook the risotto in this way for 12-15 minutes, or until most of the stock has been absorbed by the rice and the rice is tender but has a slight bite.


Meanwhile, heat the remaining oil in a frying pan over a medium heat and fry and the butternut squash for 10-12 minutes, turning regularly, until tender and golden-brown all over.


Stir the sage, butternut squash, Parmesan and mozzarella into the risotto. Turn the heat off, leave the pan on the heat, and let the cheese melt. Season, to taste, with salt and pepper.


Meanwhile, heat a dry frying pan over a medium heat. Add the pine nuts and toast for 1-2 minutes, until just golden-brown. Stir them into the risotto and serve.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: Arborio rice is the classic Italian risotto rice. It is a medium- to long-grain rice that can absorb a lot of liquid as it cooks while retaining a good ‘bite’ when cooked. Use approximately 70g/2½oz per person.

  Tip 2: The base of any risotto is the ‘soffritto’ (the fried onion and garlic). Do not allow the onion to brown, as it will ruin the flavour of the risotto. This rule applies to the rice, too, because burning the rice affects the texture of the risotto.

  Tip 3: Stirring the rice as it absorbs the stock helps to release starch which gives risotto its creamy texture.

  Tip 4: You may not need to use all of the stock - you’re aiming for a dish that’s sloppy rather than dry. As a rough guide, the risotto should absorb up to five times its volume in liquid.

  Tip 5: You can vary the flavour of your risotto by adding different ingredients. Try substituting the butternut squash and sage with cooked ham and peas. If you’re adding harder vegetables, you might need to pre-cook them first.

  Tip 6: When you stir in the cheese, you can also add butter and mascarpone to make the risotto extra-impressive and extra-luxurious.

