

Sweetcorn fritters with homemade ketchup




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
13 people



These simple fritters make a decadent brunch with some crisp bacon or a simple supper.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the fritters

100g/3½oz plain flour
1 tsp baking powder
salt and freshly ground black pepper
pinch smoked paprika
1 tbsp caster sugar
2 free-range eggs
75ml/2½fl oz milk
350g/12oz sweetcorn kernels (if using tinned, drain well)
6 finely chopped spring onions
125-150ml/4½-5fl oz vegetable oil, for frying

For the homemade ketchup

2 tsp vegetable oil
1 onion
1 stick celery
½ bulb fennel, finely chopped
2.5cm/1in fresh ginger
2 garlic cloves, peeled
1 fresh red chilli, deseeded
1 tsp coriander seeds, lightly crushed
2 cloves, tied into a muslin bag
500g/1lb 2oz plum tomatoes, skins removed
300ml/10½fl oz water
salt and freshly ground black pepper
100g/3½oz soft brown sugar
200ml/7oz red wine vinegar




Method


For the fritters, mix the flour, baking powder, salt and freshly ground black pepper, paprika and caster sugar together in a bowl.


In a separate bowl, beat the eggs and milk together. Gradually add the egg and milk mixture to the dry ingredients and combine to form a batter.


Place the sweetcorn kernels and spring onions into a separate bowl and add just enough batter to the mix to bind them.


Heat the oil in a frying pan, and drop in a good spoonful of the mix. Cook for two minutes on each side, drain on kitchen paper and keep warm until all the batter is used up.


For the tomato ketchup, heat the oil in the pan and gently fry the vegetables and spices until tender.


Add the tomatoes and water and bring to the boil, then simmer for 20 minutes and season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Allow to cool slightly.


Remove the cloves and blend the mixture in a food processor. Pass through a fine sieve, and then pass through again if the sauce isn't smooth enough.


In a non-reactive pan, boil together the sugar and vinegar to form a syrup. Add the sauce and cook for about 12-13 minutes until it reaches the consistency of ketchup.



