

Tomato and herb tarte tatin with a green salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
4 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Readymade puff pastry is so easy to use and makes a light bite of tomatoes and salad into something rather tasty. This is designed to be a low cost recipe.

  If you don’t have an ovenproof frying pan then use a tart tin, baking tray with sides or cake tin (without a loose bottom) instead.






By Lorraine Pascale


From Great British Budget Menu






Ingredients

1 tbsp olive oil
2 tsp sugar
300g/10½oz small tomatoes (not cherry), halved
salt and pepper
1 tsp dried mixed herbs
375g/13oz ready rolled puff pastry
1 egg, beaten
1 round lettuce, leaves torn
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
1 tsp English mustard
5 tbsp olive oil




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Add a tablespoon of olive oil to a large (about 25cm/10in wide) ovenproof frying pan. Sprinkle the sugar in an even layer over the base. Arrange the tomatoes cut-side down tightly into the pan. Season well with salt and pepper and scatter over the mixed dried herbs. Cook over a medium heat for 10 minutes, or until the tomatoes are beginning to caramelise and colour on their cut sides and soften slightly around the edges. Remove from the heat.


Cut the pastry into a circle 3cm/1½in bigger than the top of the pan.


Place the puff pastry over the tomatoes, tucking it around the tomatoes and down the sides of the pan so that the tomatoes are encased. Brush the top of the pastry with the beaten egg.


Bake in the preheated oven for 20 minutes, or until the puff pastry is puffed up and golden-brown.


Meanwhile, make the dressing for the lettuce. Whisk the vinegar, mustard and a pinch of salt and pepper together in a bowl. Slowly add four tablespoons of the oil, whisking as you go until it’s all incorporated. Taste and add salt and pepper as required.


Remove the tart from the oven and set aside for a few minutes. Then pour any excess liquid away, if there is any, and put a large plate upside down over the top of the frying pan. Using oven gloves, press the plate down hard and then quickly flip the whole thing over so that the plate is on the bottom and the frying pan on the top.


Place the plate on a counter and remove the frying pan. Dress the torn lettuce with the vinaigrette. Serve the tart in slices warm or cold, with the salad alongside.




Recipe Tips
In May 2013 this recipe was costed at £3.19 at Asda, £3.17 at Tesco and £3.20 at Sainsbury’s.
  This recipe is designed to be made in conjunction with a
low-cost store-cupboard.

