

Grilled pork chop with crisp black pudding, cider sauce and greens



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people



Try this great scrumpy cider and apple sauce with pork chops, greens and deep-fried black pudding.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the cider sauce

25g/1oz unsalted butter
4 Bramley apples, peeled and cut into chunks
50g/1¾oz caster sugar
200ml/7fl oz scrumpy cider

For the crisp black pudding

200g/7oz black pudding
50g/1¾oz plain flour
2 free-range eggs, beaten
50g/1¾oz Japanese panko breadcrumbs
rapeseed oil, for deep frying

For the pork chops

1 kg/2lb 4oz bone-in pork loin, French trimmed, cut into four thick chops
salt and pepper
50g/1¾oz unsalted butter

For the spring greens

25g/1oz unsalted butter
1 head of spring greens, sliced thickly
salt and pepper

To serve

250ml/9fl oz pork jus or gravy




Method


For the cider sauce, heat the butter in a saucepan. Add the apples, sugar and the scrumpy cider. Bring to a simmer over a gentle heat and cook until the apples are very soft. Add a little more cider or water if the mixture becomes too dry. Stir from time to time.


For the crisp black pudding, cut the pudding into 2½cm/1in chunks. Dust the pieces in flour, dip in the beaten egg and coat with panko breadcrumbs. Store in the fridge until ready to cook.


For the pork chops, preheat a grill to high. Season the pork chops with salt and pepper.


Place the chop in an ovenproof frying pan and place under the grill. Cook on both sides for 3-4 minutes. Remove from the grill and place on the hob. Add the butter and, when melted, use it to baste the chop. Set the chops aside to rest before serving.


For the crisp black pudding, heat a deep fat fryer to 180C/350F, or heat the rapeseed oil in a deep-sided, heavy based pan until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden-brown when dropped into it. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Deep fry the coated black pudding for 2-3 minutes, or until crisp. Remove from the fryer and drain on kitchen paper.


For the spring greens, in a pan heat the butter with 50ml/2fl oz water to make an emulsion. Add the greens, cover with a lid and steam for 2-3 minutes. Season with salt and pepper.


To serve, place a pork chop on each plate with a spoonful of cider sauce, crisp black pudding and greens. Drizzle over the pork jus or gravy.



