

Grilled salmon Niçoise




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
8 people



An easy twist on the classic French salad Niçoise using fresh seared salmon and a luscious homemade dressing.

  Each serving provides 857kcal, 51g protein, 18g carbohydrate (of which 4g sugars), 64g fat (of which 11g saturates), 5g fibre and 2.1g salt.






By Paul Rankin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients

900g/2lb very fresh salmon fillet
1 tbsp cracked black peppercorns
salt
2 tbsp light olive oil
1 yellow pepper
½ tbsp vegetable oil
8-12 cooked new potatoes
2 plum tomatoes
175g/6 oz green beans, cooked
20 olives
salt and pepper
2 tbsp virgin olive oil
2 tbsp chopped parsley
flat leaf parsley, to garnish

For the dressing

½ tsp salt
1 ½ tbsp Dijon mustard
4 tsp lemon juice
1 garlic clove, crushed
5 drops Tabasco sauce
4 anchovy filets
110ml4fl oz light olive oil
1 egg, yolk only




Method


Discard the skin of the salmon, and cut it into 4 equal steaks. Sprinkle each steak with salt and black pepper, pressing it firmly into the steaks with your hand. Coat lightly in oil, and refrigerate until ready to cook.


Rub the yellow pepper with a little vegetable oil, and grill or roast until the skin is well blistered. Allow to cool, and then peel off the charred skin, remove the seeds, slice into 8 pieces, and place in a bowl. Cut the tomatoes into 6 wedges each, and slice the new potatoes if they seem very large.


Combine all the vegetables, season lightly with salt and pepper, and toss with the olive oil, and parsley. Leave to come to room temperature.


To make the dressing, combine all the dressing ingredients in a blender, and pulse until smooth and emulsified.


To cook the salmon, heat a large grill pan, (preferably cast iron) over high heat until almost smoking. Add the salmon, and sear for 1-3 minutes on each side.


To serve, divide the vegetables among the plates, and place a salmon steak in the centre of each. Surround with a generous drizzle of the dressing, and serve at once.



