

Tomato tart with herb oil, tapenade and watercress and tarragon salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
8 people



Don't worry about the long list of ingredients - this wonderfully fresh tomato tart takes no time to make.






By John Torode


From Celebrity MasterChef






Ingredients
For the relish

3 tbsp olive oil
2 banana shallots, chopped
1 large garlic clove, crushed
1 tsp black pepper
1 tsp salt
2 heaped tsp ground cumin
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
5 really ripe tomatoes, halved

For the tart

2 sheets ready-rolled puff pastry
8 plum tomatoes, thickly sliced
1 free-range egg, beaten with a pinch of salt

For the herb oil

2 garlic cloves, crushed
100ml/3½fl oz olive oil
small bunch fresh basil, leaves picked, stalks reserved
small bunch fresh tarragon, leaves picked, stalks reserved
2 handfuls fresh watercress, leaves picked
salt and black pepper

For the tapenade

200g/7oz pitted Kalamata olives
3 tbsp capers, rinsed
15g/½oz anchovies in oil (drained weight)
2 tbsp finely chopped flatleaf parsley
25ml/1oz brandy
salt and black pepper
drizzle of olive oil




Method


Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7.


For the relish, heat the olive oil in a saucepan and gently fry the shallot and garlic. Season with black pepper, salt and ground cumin. Add the white wine vinegar and simmer until the volume of liquid has reduced a little. Add the tomatoes, cover with a lid and simmer for 45-50 minutes, or until you have a thick relish consistency.


For the tart, line a flat baking sheet with baking parchment.


Cut out four 16cm/6¼in rounds from the puff pastry sheets (use a 1 litre/1¾ pint pudding bowl as a guide). Mark a 15mm/¾in border in the pastry circles (use a 500ml/18fl oz bowl as a guide). Place the pastry on the prepared baking sheet and prick the centres with a fork.


Spoon some of the cooked relish into the centre of the pastry circles. Arrange the slices of plum tomato on top and brush the border with beaten egg - making sure you don’t brush the cut edge as this will prevent the pastry rising. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes, until the pastry is risen and golden-brown.


Meanwhile make the herb oil. In a pan, gently heat the garlic in the olive oil with the basil stalks and tarragon stalks. Remove from the heat after 10 minutes and season with salt and pepper.


Place a small handful of the basil leaves, tarragon leaves and watercress leaves in a small food processor (reserve the rest for the salad). Pour over some boiling water to wilt the leaves. Drain the water from the food processor and blend the leaves to a paste. Pour in the herb-infused oil and blend again until smooth.


Make a salad with the remaining watercress, basil and tarragon leaves. Season with salt.


To make the tapenade, blend the olives, capers, anchovies, parsley, brandy and black pepper together in a small food processor. Loosen with a little olive oil and blend to make a paste.


Serve the cooked tarts topped with a small quenelle of tapenade and some herb salad. Drizzle with the herb oil.




Recipe Tips
Try making smaller versions for an easy but impressive starter.

