

Guinness and ginger float



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This Jamaican-style trifle combines lashings of cream, Caribbean spices and Guinness - it's perfect for Christmas.






By Monica Galetti


From Christmas Kitchen with James Martin






Ingredients
For the ginger ice cream

500ml/17fl oz ready-made crème anglaise
400ml/14fl oz full-fat milk
100ml/3½fl oz double cream
2 vanilla pods, split in half lengthways, seeds scraped out with a sharp knife
6 free-range egg yolks
65g/2¼oz caster sugar
2 tbsp ground ginger

For the crème

125g/4½oz crème fraîche
125ml/4½fl oz double cream
2 tsp confit ginger syrup, from jar of confit ginger (see below)

For the ginger cake (for the crumble, below)

225g/8oz plain flour
2 tsp ground ginger
pinch ground cinnamon
pinch ground mixed spice
pinch salt
85g/3oz butter, melted, plus extra for greasing
225g/8oz golden syrup
55g/2¼oz demerara sugar
1 free-range egg
4 tsp milk

For the crumble

100g/3½oz ginger cake, cut into cubes (see above)
icing sugar, for dusting
1 small firm pear, peeled, core removed, diced
1 piece confit ginger (in syrup, from a jar), diced

To serve

1 x 440ml can Irish stout
1 x 500ml bottle spicy ginger ale




Method


For the ginger ice cream, bring the crème anglaise, milk, cream and vanilla seeds to the boil in a saucepan. Whisk the egg yolks and sugar in a bowl until pale and fluffy.


When the cream mixture is just boiling, pour it over the egg yolk mixture, whisking continuously to combine.


Return the custard mixture to the saucepan and cook over a medium heat, stirring constantly, until it has thickened enough to coat the back of a spoon. Strain the custard into a jug and stir in the ground ginger. Set aside to cool. Once cool, chill the custard in the fridge.


Transfer the chilled custard to an ice-cream machine and churn according to the manufacturers' instructions until set. Freeze until needed.


For the crème, whisk together all of the crème ingredients in a large bowl until well combined. Chill for at least 30 minutes.


For the ginger cake, preheat the oven to 170C/150C Fan/Gas 3. Grease a Swiss roll tin with butter.


In a large bowl, mix together the dry ingredients until well combined.


In a separate bowl, mix together the melted butter, syrup and sugar until well combined.


In a third bowl, whisk together the egg and milk.


Mix the egg mixture, dry ingredients and syrup mixture together until well combined, then pour the cake mixture into the prepared tin. Bake in the oven for 8-10 minutes, or until a skewer inserted into the centre of the cake comes out clean. Roughly chop 100g/3½oz of the ginger cake into small cubes.


For the crumble, dust the ginger cake cubes in icing sugar and place them onto a baking tray. Bake in the oven for 2-3 minutes, or until the sugar has melted and caramelised and the cake is slightly toasted. Remove from the oven and set aside.


In a bowl, mix together the pear and confit ginger until well combined. Just before serving, mix the pear mixture with the toasted ginger cake.


To serve, sprinkle some of the crumble mixture into the bottom of a large glass bowl, or 4 individual glass bowls. Top with some of the ginger ice cream. Cover the ice cream with a layer of the crème mixture. Drizzle over some of the Guinness and ginger ale (you may not need to use all of the liquids). Repeat the layering process until all of the ingredients have been used up, finishing with a sprinkling of the crumble. Serve immediately, or chill until needed.



