

Haddock goujons, chips and tartare sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4



Try James Martin's recipe for posh fish and chips with homemade tartare sauce - you'll never go back to the chippy again!






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the haddock goujons and chips

vegetable oil, for frying
400g/14oz haddock fillet, skinned, pin bones removed, cut into strips
110g/4oz plain flour
200g/7oz fresh breadcrumbs
3 free-range eggs, beaten
600g/1lb 6oz chipping potatoes, peeled, cut into chips

For the tartare sauce

3 free-range egg yolks
2 tbsp cider vinegar
300ml/11fl oz rapeseed oil
110g/4oz capers
150g/5oz gherkins, chopped
½ shallot, finely chopped
1 small bunch fresh dill, chopped
2 tbsp chopped fresh flatleaf parsley
½ lemon, juice only




Method


For the haddock goujons and chips, preheat a deep-fat fryer to 190C/375F. (CAUTION: Hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended).


Sprinkle the flour and breadcrumbs onto separate plates and beat the eggs in a bowl. Dredge the haddock strips in the flour, then dip in the egg and coat in the breadcrumbs.


Deep-fry for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown. (You may need to do this in batches.) Remove from the fryer with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


Add the potatoes to the deep-fat fryer and fry for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown and crisp. Remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper. Season with a little salt.


For the tartare sauce, whisk the egg yolks and vinegar together in a bowl.


Continue to whisk the mixture and slowly pour in the rapeseed oil until all of the oil is incorporated and mixture is thick and light.


Stir in the capers, gherkins, shallot and herbs. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice.


To serve, pile the chips and goujons onto serving plates and spoon some tartare sauce alongside.



