

Halibut with bean salad and tzatziki



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4







By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the halibut

4 x 175g/6oz halibut steaks
100g/3½oz plain flour
2-3 tbsp cayenne pepper
1 tsp celery salt
1 tsp garlic powder
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tsp oil
knob of butter

For the bean salad

150ml/5fl oz fresh tomato juice (made by blending 4-5 fresh tomatoes and passing through a sieve to collect the juice. Discard the pulp and seeds.)
50ml/2fl oz red wine vinegar
100ml/3½fl oz olive oil
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
salt and freshly ground black pepper
400g/14oz canned mixed beans, rinsed and drained
2 sticks celery, finely chopped
1 green chilli, seeds removed, chopped

For the tzatziki

250ml/9fl oz Greek-style yoghurt
1 tbsp chopped fresh dill
1 lime, juice only
half cucumber, peeled, grated
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

1 lime, cut into wedges, to garnish
small handful chopped parsley, to garnish




Method


For the halibut, mix the flour, cayenne pepper, celery salt and garlic powder in a bowl and season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Dredge the halibut steaks in the spiced flour mixture and shake off anty excess.


Heat the oil in a pan over a medium heat. Add the butter, and when it begins to foam add the fish.


Cook the halibut steaks for three minutes on each side, or until just cooked through. (If the steaks are very thick, transfer them to the oven preheated to 180C/365F/Gas 4 and roast for a further 4-6 minutes, or until completely cooked through.)


For the bean salad, whisk the tomato juice, red wine vinegar, olive oil and garlic together in a bowl. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then add the mixed beans, celery and chilli and mix well.


For the tzatziki, mix the yoghurt, dill and lime juice together in a clean bowl.


Add the grated cucumber and season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper. (Thin the mixture down with water if necessary.)


To serve, place a large spoonful of the bean salad into each serving bowl. Place a piece of halibut on top of each and spoon a dollop of tzatziki alongside.


Garnish with lime wedges and chopped parsley and serve.



