

Harissa baked fish with bulgur wheat




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
14 people



Harissa adds a wonderful smoky spice to the delicate flavour of white fish in this dish while the bulgur topping adds a healthy crunch.

  With a GI of 41, this meal is high protein, low GI and provides 453 kcal per portion.






By Justine Pattison






Ingredients

2 medium-large ripe tomatoes, quartered
1 orange or yellow pepper, deseeded and cut into 2cm chunks
low-calorie cooking oil spray
75g/2½oz bulgur wheat
20g/¾oz pine nuts
1 lemon
4 spring onions, thinly sliced
3 heaped tbsp roughly chopped fresh coriander
2 x 200g/7oz skinless white fish fillets, such as cod or haddock
2 tsp harissa paste
freshly ground black pepper
160g/6oz broccoli, cut into florets
2 tbsp fat-free natural yoghurt, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7. Put the tomatoes and pepper in a small roasting tin, spray with a little oil, season with black pepper and bake for 15 minutes.


Meanwhile, cook the bulgur wheat in a small pan of boiling water for five minutes, then drain well in a sieve.


Toast the pine nuts in a small dry pan over a medium heat, turning regularly, until lightly browned.


Cut the lemon in half and cut four thin slices from one half. Squeeze the juice from the other half.


Take the vegetables out of the oven. Add the bulgur wheat, spring onions, pine nuts, two heaped tablespoons of coriander and lemon juice (reserve a little lemon juice to serve). Season with ots of black pepper and toss lightly.


Make two gaps in the bulgur mixture and nestle the fish into them. Season the fish to taste, spread with the harissa paste and top with lemon slices. Bake for 15 minutes, or until the fish is just cooked.


Steam the broccoli until cooked to your liking.


Divide the fish and bulgur mixture between two plates and scatter with the remaining coriander. Squeeze over the rest of the lemon juice. Add broccoli to the plates and serve with yoghurt.



