

Healthy mini pizzas




Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 8 mini pizzas


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




A spelt flour pizza with three delicious flavour combinations to choose from. The pizza toppings ingredients below are per mini pizza, so double or quadruple the ingredients, as necessary.

  Each mini pizza provides 168 kcal, 5.4g protein, 29.5g carbohydrate (of which 2.7g sugars), 3.4g fat (of which 1.2g saturates), 2.4g fibre and 0.4g salt per portion.





By Natasha Corrett and Vicki Edgson






Ingredients
For the bases

½ tsp active dry yeast
285g/9¼oz white spelt flour, plus extra for dusting
½ tsp Himalayan pink salt

For the sauce

1 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
2 tbsp capers, rinsed and drained
pinch dried chilli flakes
300g/10½oz tomatoes, deseeded and finely chopped
1 tbsp fresh oregano or 1 tsp dried oregano

For the artichoke, basil and mozzarella topping

2 canned artichoke hearts, thinly sliced
2 basil leaves, shredded
20g/¾oz buffalo mozzarella, torn into small pieces

For the courgette, lemon and feta topping

15g/½oz courgette, thinly sliced
3 strips of lemon rind, finely sliced
15g/½oz feta, crumbled

For the fennel, sweet potato and goats’ cheese topping

10g/1/3oz fennel, thinly sliced
15g/½oz sweet potato, thinly sliced
6g/¼oz hard goats’ cheese, grated

For the roasted garlic, beetroot and feta topping

3 garlic cloves, roasted and squeezed out of the skins
7g/¼oz beetroot, thinly sliced
10g/½oz feta, crumbled




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


For the bases, mix the yeast with 170ml/6fl oz of lukewarm water, cover and set aside in a warm room for about 15 minutes.


Meanwhile make the sauce. Heat the oil in a pan and gently fry the onion and garlic until the onions start to go soft. Add a splash of water to cool then add the remaining ingredients. Simmer for 15 minutes, or until thickened. Set aside until ready to construct the pizzas.


For the bases, whisk the yeast and water mixture and set aside for another five minutes.


Place the spelt flour and salt in a large bowl. Make a well in the centre and pour in the yeast mixture. Mix to combine then turn out onto a lightly floured work surface and knead for 5–10 minutes until smooth and silky to the touch, adding a little more flour if necessary.


Divide the bread dough into eight pieces, roll each piece into a ball and place on a baking tray lined with baking parchment and flatten into a circle. Smear on some tomato sauce followed by your choice of toppings and bake for five minutes. Rotate and bake for a further five minutes, or until the base is crisp.



