

Herb crusted rack of lamb with dauphinoise potatoes and a spinach and basil timbale



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
5 people



This smart-looking roast is easier than it sounds and the herbs give a freshness to the rich lamb and creamy potatoes.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the dauphinoise potatoes

50g/1¾oz unsalted butter
1kg/2lb 4oz white potatoes, peeled and thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
salt and pepper
300ml/10fl oz full-fat milk
300ml/10fl oz double cream

For the spinach and basil timbale

butter, for greasing
10g/⅓oz baby spinach leaves, wilted
2 rashers streaky bacon, chopped and fried
4 slices white bread, crusts removed, cut into 5mm/¼in cubes and fried
2 medium free-range eggs, beaten
4 tbsp double cream
1 tbsp parsley, chopped
gravy, to serve

For the herb crusted rack of lamb

2 x 6-bone racks of lamb, French trimmed
2 tbsp olive oil
5 tbsp fresh breadcrumbs
1 tbsp chopped flatleaf parsley
1 tbsp chopped basil
1 tbsp chopped chives
1 tbsp English mustard




Method


Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 3.


For the dauphinoise potatoes, grease a medium-sized ovenproof dish with half the butter.


Arrange the sliced potatoes in the dish in layers, with some garlic and seasoning in between the layers.


Mix the milk and cream and pour over the potatoes. Dot the remaining butter over the top and cover with aluminium foil.


Bake in the oven for 1½ hours. Remove the foil and return to the oven for 30 minutes, or until the potatoes are golden-brown.


For the spinach and basil timbale, grease six daroile moulds with butter and line with cling film. Line the moulds with the wilted spinach.


Mix the bacon and croûtons in a bowl. Add the eggs and cream. Season with salt and pepper, add the parsley and pour into the moulds.


Place the moulds in a deep-sided roasting tin and add boiling water to the tin until it comes half way up the side of the moulds.


Place in the oven for 30 minutes, or until set.


For the herb crusted rack of lamb, preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Season the lamb with salt and pepper. Heat a large frying pan and add the oil, once hot, add the lamb and seal on all sides.


In a bowl mix the breadcrumbs and herbs and set aside.


Brush the lamb with mustard and then cover with the herb crumbs.


Place the lamb back in the oven for 12-14 minutes, or until cooked to your liking. Then remove and set aside to rest for at least five minutes before carving.


To serve, carve the racks of lamb. Place a portion of potatoes and a timbale on each plate along with three pieces of the lamb. Serve with gravy.



