

Herb-roasted chicken thighs with ratatouille and olive and red wine sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 1


Recommended by
1 person







By Paul Rankin


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the herb-roasted chicken thighs

3 tbsp olive oil
2 boneless chicken thighs
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme
1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the ratatouille

½ onion, finely chopped
1 clove garlic, crushed
1 tbsp olive oil
½ courgette, chopped
½ aubergine, chopped
1 vine tomato, de-seeded and chopped
1 tbsp tomato purée
50ml/2fl oz hot water
25g/1oz pitted black olives, chopped
6 fresh basil leaves, torn

For the olive and red wine sauce

200ml/7fl oz red wine
½ chicken stock cube
50ml/2fl oz hot water
25g/1oz pitted black olives, halved




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


For the chicken, lightly oil the chicken thighs with one tablespoon of the oil, then roll in the chopped herbs to coat. Season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Heat the remaining oil in an ovenproof frying pan and place the chicken in skin-side down. Press down on the chicken with a spatula and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until the skin is crisp. Turn over and fry for another 3-4 minutes, then transfer to the oven to roast for 8-10 minutes, or until the chicken is cooked through. The juices should run clear when the chicken is pierced at its thickest point.


For the ratatouille, in a another pan gently fry the onion and garlic in the oil over a medium heat until softened, about 3-4 minutes. Add the courgette and aubergine and fry until they start to take on some colour, about five minutes. Stir in the chopped tomato, tomato purée, water and olives. Reduce the heat and simmer for 2-3 minutes before stirring through the fresh basil.


For the olive and red wine sauce, bring the wine in a pan to the boil and crumble in the stock cube, stirring until the cube has dissolved. Add the hot water, then reduce the heat and simmer for 4-5 minutes before stirring in the olives.


To serve, place the chicken thighs on a serving plate and spoon the ratatouille on the side. Drizzle the olive red wine sauce around the edge of the plate and serve.



