

Homemade hotdogs






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
1 person



This is a hotdog a world apart from those jars in the supermarket. Made with cured pork fat, nutmeg and coriander, this gourmet dog is delish served in a brioche roll with mustard.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need a large piping bag, natural sheeps casings for making sausages, and a cooking thermometer.






By Michel Roux Jr.


From Food & Drink






Ingredients
For the caramelised onions

1 tbsp olive oil
25g/1oz unsalted butter
2 large onions, peeled and sliced
½ tsp salt
½ tsp pepper

For the hot dogs

160g/5¾oz cured pork fat (lardo or salo, available from specialist online suppliers)
25g/1oz pork back fat (available from a butcher)
250g/9oz lean pork mince
2 free-range egg whites
1 tsp cornflour
salt and freshly ground black pepper
freshly grated nutmeg
pinch ground coriander
4 tbsp frozen milk
natural sheep casings, cleaned thoroughly under cold running water (available from specialist online suppliers)

To serve

brioche rolls
mustard




Method


For the caramelised onions, heat the oil and butter in a pan and add the onions, salt and pepper. Cook over a low heat for 20-30 minutes, stirring from time to time, until golden-brown, soft and sticky.


For the hotdogs, chop both fats then place in a food processor with the mince and all the other remaining ingredients, except the casings. Blend to a smooth paste. Fill a large piping bag with the hotdog mix and carefully fill the sheep casing. Twist the filled casings to separate into individual hotdogs, around 15cm/6in long. Tie off the ends to seal in the mixture.


Place in a pan of cold water and bring up to 86C/187F. The water must not exceed this temperature. Poach gently (so as not to break the casings) for about 10 minutes, or until the pork has cooked through.


Drain well and serve in a brioche roll with mustard.



