

Monster meatball pitta



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4



Give meatballs a flavour boost with a pinch of cumin. If you are cooking with kids, get them to help with rolling the meatballs and making the herby yoghurt.






By Aaron Craze






Ingredients

500g/1lb 2oz lamb mince
2 tsp ground cumin
oil, for frying
salt and pepper
100g/3½oz plain yoghurt, to serve
1 tsp dried mixed herbs, to serve
4 wholemeal pitta breads, to serve
1 lettuce, to serve

For the salad

4 medium tomatoes
1 cucumber
oil. for drizzling
1 tsp dried mixed herbs




Method


In a large bowl, mix the mince, cumin and a little salt and pepper together well.


Divide the mixture into 16 even-sized pieces. Roll each piece into a ball about the size of a golf ball and set aside.


Heat a large frying pan, or two smaller frying pans, over a medium heat. Once hot, add a dash of oil and carefully put the meatballs in the pan. Cook for 15 minutes, or until cooked through, rolling the meatballs around from time to time to ensure even cooking on all sides.


Meanwhile, make the salad. Cut the tomatoes into cubes and put them in a bowl. Cut the cucumber into cubes and add to the salad bowl. Drizzle over a little oil and sprinkle with the mixed herbs. Season with a pinch of salt and pepper and toss together to make sure all the vegetables are evenly coated in oil and herbs. Set aside.


Mix together the yoghurt and mixed herbs and season to taste.


Lightly toast the pitta breads and cut open. Lay a few lettuce leaves inside each pitta. Top with four meatballs and spoon over the herby yoghurt. Serve immediately with the salad on the side.




Recipe Tips
Depending on what you have in your store cupboard, you can play around with adding different spices and herbs to the meatballs.

  Using plain yoghurt instead of mayonnaise as a sauce is much healthier and cheaper. You can flavour it with whatever you like – a teaspoon or two of sweet chilli sauce stirred through makes this delicious, or add a teaspoon of mustard and a dash of vinegar or squeeze of lemon to make the yoghurt taste even more like mayonnaise.

