

Homemade ricotta with broad bean salad



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Making ricotta at home is surprisingly easy; it takes a little time but is definitely worth it, especially when served with a delicious seasonal salad.






By Angela Hartnett


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the ricotta

3 litres/5¼ pints whole milk
1.5 litres/2½ pints double cream
8 lemons, juice only
2 sprigs thyme
2 sprigs rosemary
2 garlic cloves
salt and freshly ground black pepper
extra virgin olive oil, to serve

For the broad bean salad

100g/4oz fresh peas, podded
100g/4oz broad beans, podded
1 bunch asparagus, chopped
½ fennel bulb, shaved
1 punnet pea shoots
salt

For the dressing

25ml/1¾fl oz pomace oil or olive oil
25ml/1¾fl oz extra virgin olive oil
1 tbsp sherry vinegar
1 garlic clove, grated
1 tsp Dijon mustard
1 orange, zest only
1 tsp salt




Method


For the ricotta, place the milk, cream, thyme, rosemary and garlic in a medium saucepan and heat through to infuse the milk. Pass through a fine sieve.


Place back on the heat in a new saucepan and season with salt. Bring to a simmer and add the lemon juice. Do not whisk. The milk infusion will split on its own. Remove from the heat, set aside for 30 minutes.


Place a sieve over a large bowl and line with muslin. Pour the split milk mixture into the sieve and place in the fridge for 6 hours. Discard the whey and place the curd in the fridge.


For the broad bean salad, heat a large saucepan of boiling water and season with salt. Blanch the peas, broad beans and asparagus for 3-5 minutes, plunge in cold water to cool then drain. Mix the vegetables in a bowl, then add the fennel and pea shoots.


For the dressing, place the ingredients into a bowl and whisk to combine. Pour the dressing over the salad and mix just before serving.


To serve, spoon ricotta onto a plate, dress with some black pepper, sea salt and extra virgin olive oil and place some of the salad alongside.




Recipe Tips
Depending on the size of your lemons you may not need all fo the lemon juice, you just need enough lemon juice to make the milk split.

