

Honey mousse with port jelly and fresh raspberries




Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 6



This is a wonderfully elegant make-ahead dessert, simple to make and tastes divine.






By Peter Gorton






Ingredients
For the mousse

320ml/11fl oz milk
4 free-range eggs, yolks only
100g/3½oz caster sugar
60g/2¼oz honey
2½ leaves gelatine
250ml/9fl oz double cream, whipped to stiff peaks

For the port jelly

90g/3oz sugar
90ml/3fl oz port
2 leaves gelatine

To serve

fresh figs, sliced into quarters




Method


Bring the milk to a simmer in a saucepan. Whisk the egg yolks and caster sugar in a bowl until pale and frothy, then add the honey and slowly whisk in the warm milk. Stand the bowl over a pan of simmering water (ensure the bowl does not touch the water) and gently cook, whisking continuously until thickened and the mixture coats the back of a spoon.


Soften the gelatine leaves in a little cold water for five minutes, wring out the excess water and stir the gelatine into the custard until dissolved. Pass the custard through a fine sieve into a clean bowl and chill in the refrigerator. When the custard is almost set (about an hour) fold in the whipped cream.


For the port jelly, mix the sugar and port in a saucepan and boil until the sugar has dissolved. Soften the gelatine leaves in a little water for five minutes, wring out the excess water and stir the gelatine into the hot liquid until dissolved. Pass the jelly through a fine sieve into a bowl and allow to cool but not set.


To assemble, seal the bottom of six ring moulds with clingfilm. Spoon the mousse into the moulds, leaving space at the top to add the port jelly. Refrigerate until set (at least 1½ hours). Pour the jelly on top of the mousse. Refrigerate until set (about one hour).


To serve, suspend the moulds in hot water for 30 seconds then carefully remove the clingfilm. Place each mousse onto a plate. Place a few raspberries on top of the mousse and drizzle a little honey over the top. Arrange the fig slices around the mousse.




Recipe Tips
You can serve this mousse with shortbread biscuit, or raspberry sorbet.

