

Hot cross buns



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 12


Recommended by
5 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By Jo' Pratt


From The Nation's Favourite Food






Ingredients

450g/1lb plain flour, plus extra for dusting
1 tsp salt
½ tsp ground cinnamon
1½ tsp mixed spice
50g/2oz butter
75g/3oz currants
50g/2oz mixed peel, chopped
7g sachet of 1½ tsp fast-action dried yeast
100ml/3½fl oz warm water
100ml 3½fl oz warm milk
1 egg, beaten

For the decoration

100g/4oz readymade shortcrust pastry
or 100g/4oz plain flour mixed with 3 tbsp water to give a dough
1 egg, beaten
2 tbsp freshly squeezed orange juice strained through a sieve
2 tbsp granulated sugar




Method


Sift the flour, salt, cinnamon and mixed spice into a large bowl for electronic mixer with a dough hook and rub in the butter.


Stir in the currants, mixed peel and yeast. Make a well in the centre and pour in the water, milk and beaten egg. Mix this together to form a sticky dough, then knead on a floured surface for 8-10 minutes (or for 5 minutes in the machine on a low speed) Until it is smooth and elastic.


Place the dough in a large bowl, greased lightly with oil, cover with a slightly damp tea towel and leave to rise in a warm place for about 1 hour, or until doubled in volume.


Knock back the dough by pressing the air out of it, and knead for a couple of minutes. Divide into 12 equal-sized pieces and shape into round buns. Place on to one or two large greased baking sheets, leaving enough space between each bun for rising. Cover with the tea towel and leave to rise again until doubled in size, which will take about 30-45 minutes.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Whilst the buns are rising, roll out the pastry or flour dough thinly and cut out 24 strips, approx. 0.5x7.5cm/¼x3in for the decoration.


Brush the risen buns with the beaten egg and lay 2 strips of the pastry/dough on to each bun to form a cross in the middle. Brush with the egg and place in the oven. Cook for 15-18 minutes until golden and hollow-sounding when tapped underneath.


Whilst the buns are cooking, place the orange juice and sugar in a small saucepan and gently heat until the sugar has dissolved.


As soon as the buns are out of the oven, brush with the glaze and eat straight away or leave to cool on a wire rack and serve toasted, dripping with butter.



