

Hot raspberry soufflé with honey and oatmeal ice cream



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By Nick Nairn


From Great British Menu






Ingredients
For the ice cream

500ml/17fl oz double cream
½ vanilla pod, split and seeds scraped out
2½ tbsp clear honey
1 tbsp glucose (available from chemists)
1½ tbsp Glengoyne, or other similar single malt whisky
4 free-range egg yolks
30g/1oz oatmeal
10g/¼oz icing sugar, sifted

For the soufflé

400g/14oz raspberries
1 tbsp lemon juice
100g/3½oz caster sugar, plus extra for coating insides of ramekins
2 tsp crème de framboise
1 tsp cornflour
icing sugar
6 free-range egg whites
pinch of cream of tartar
butter, for greasing




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


First, prepare the custard for the ice cream. Heat the cream in a heavy-based pan and add the vanilla pod and seeds, honey, glucose and whisky. Bring the cream to a simmer, then remove from the heat and let stand for 10 minutes to infuse.


Lightly whisk the egg yolks in a bowl. Pour some of the warm cream over the yolks and mix well, then return this mixture to the remaining cream and combine.


Set the pan over a moderate heat and cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture starts to thicken and will coat the back of the spoon. Take care not to allow it to become too hot or the egg will curdle and the custard will become lumpy (if this happens, press through a fine mesh sieve to remove lumps). Immediately pass through a coarse sieve into a clean cold bowl. Cover the surface of the custard with cling film and leave to cool.


For the soufflé, press the raspberries through a fine sieve to produce 180g/6½oz of purée. Put this into a heavy-bottomed pan, add the lemon juice and reduce down to a thick jam, stirring from time to time and being careful not let it catch and burn.


Put 45g/1½oz of the sugar in a separate pan. Melt it, then boil until it becomes a thick syrup (121C on a sugar thermometer). To test without a thermometer, dip a teaspoon into the syrup and then quickly into cold water. You should be able to roll the cooling syrup into a ball between your fingers. But be careful as the syrup is extremely hot. When it has reached the right point, stir the hot syrup into the raspberry jam.


Mix the framboise and cornflour together and stir into the jam over the heat. Turn the jam into a small bowl, sprinkle the surface with icing sugar and cover with cling film.


Preheat the grill to moderate.


To finish the ice cream, spread the oatmeal on a baking tray, lightly dust with about one-third of the icing sugar and place under the grill. Cook for a couple of minutes, then turn the oatmeal and sprinkle with more icing sugar. Place back under the grill for another 2 minutes, then repeat the process. Alternatively, cook the oatmeal and sugar in a dry frying pan, stirring constantly. In the end, the oatmeal should be a light, golden brown colour, and the sugar melted down to a crisp crust. Allow to cool completely.


Churn the custard in an ice cream maker, stirring in the cool, caramelised oatmeal once the ice cream has thickened. Remove the ice cream to a clean container and place in the freezer. Scoop four balls of ice cream and freeze them on a tray. Allow to soften in the fridge for 30 minutes before serving.


Whisk the egg whites with the cream of tartar until you can form soft peaks, then fold in the remaining caster sugar. Lightly fold the whites into the jam, leaving thin traces of white visible in the mixture.


Spoon into four large buttered and sugared ramekins, place these on a baking tray and bake for 10 minutes.


Transfer the ramekins to plates. Dust the hot soufflés lightly with icing sugar, then make a small hole in the top of each and place a ball of the ice cream inside. Serve immediately.



