

Hot salmon with lime, chilli and coriander



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 30


Recommended by
1 person







By Dhruv Baker


From MasterChef






Ingredients
For the salmon

2 garlic cloves, peeled, finely chopped
5cm/2in piece fresh root ginger, peeled and finely chopped
½ tsp sea salt
1 lime
500g/17½oz salmon fillet, skinned and pin boned

For the coriander marinade

50g/2oz spinach leaves
1 small bunch fresh coriander
1 small bunch fresh mint
3 green chillies, chopped
1 lime, juice only
vegetable oil
1 tbsp gram flour (also sold as besan or chickpea flour)
2 tbsp thick yoghurt

For the garnish

3 banana shallots, peeled, sliced into rings
1 tsp sugar
1 x 340g/12oz jar pickled baby beetroot, drained and finely chopped, 2 tbsp pickling liquid reserved
1 tsp lime juice
1 small bunch fresh coriander, leaves only




Method


For the salmon, using a pestle and mortar pound the garlic and ginger with the salt to form a smooth paste. Spoon into a shallow dish and mix in the lime juice.


Chop the salmon into 2.5cm/1in cubes and add to the dish. Mix gently to coat evenly in the mixture. Leave to marinate for about 10 minutes.


For the coriander marinade, place the spinach, coriander and mint into a food processor. Add the chillies, a squeeze of lime juice and a trickle of vegetable oil. Blend until smooth, adding a little more oil if the mixture is too thick. Spoon into a bowl and mix in the flour and yoghurt. Season with a little salt, then add the marinated salmon, coating evenly in the mixture.


Preheat the oven to 200C/390F/gas 6. Grease 1-2 large baking sheets with olive oil.


Place the marinate salmon pieces onto the prepared trays, spacing them apart. Roast for 8-10 minutes, or until just cooked through. Remove from the oven and set aside. Preheat the grill to high.


For the garnish, mix the sugar, reserved pickling liquid from the beetroot, lime juice and coriander leaves together in a bowl. Add the shallot rings and mix well to coat.


Place the trays of salmon under the grill and cook for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown.


To serve, spoon the grilled salmon into small serving dishes and garnish with the shallot mixture and chopped beetroot.



