

How to make a tomato sauce






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 8 servings


Recommended by
12 people



A classic, rich tomato sauce - great with pasta, meatballs or mixed with creamy mascarpone. This recipe makes a big batch - perfect for freezing to whip up quick weekday meals.






By Jane Hornby






Ingredients
For the basic tomato sauce

4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil, plus more to serve
5 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
2 tbsp tomato purée
4 x 400g tins chopped plum tomatoes
1 tbsp caster sugar
large bunch fresh basil, finely chopped
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the sausage meatballs variation

2 herby pork sausages per person
1 tsp olive oil, for frying
¼ tsp dried crushed chillies per person (optional)
spaghetti, cooked according to packet instructions
freshly grated Parmesan, to serve

For the creamy mascarpone sauce variation

1 tbsp mascarpone per person
spaghetti, cooked according to packet instructions
basil leaves, to serve




Method


For the basic tomato sauce, heat the oil in a wide saucepan or large frying pan, then add the garlic and basil stalks and sizzle for 1 minute, without colouring them. Stir in the tomato purée.


Tip in the chopped tomatoes, and sugar, then season with a generous amount of salt and pepper. Simmer for 5 minutes until the sauce is rich and thick. Stir in the basil leaves just before the end.


For the sausage meatballs variation, cut the sausage skin and squeeze the meat from the sausages, pinching it into small meatballs as you squeeze.


Heat the oil in a non-stick frying pan, then add the sausage meatballs and fry for 10 minutes or until browned all over and cooked through. Season with the chillies. Stir in some of the tomato sauce then bring to a simmer. Add cooked pasta to the sauce, stirring to coat it in the sauce. Add 2 tablespoons of the pasta cooking water to thin down the sauce. Serve with freshly grated Parmesan.


For the creamy mascarpone sauce variation, stir the mascarpone in to the tomato sauce until melted. Stir in cooked pasta to coat it in the sauce. Add two tablespoons of the pasta cooking water to thin down the sauce. Season to taste and serve scattered with basil leaves.




Recipe Tips
The basic tomato sauce can be kept in the fridge for a week, or frozen for up to 2 months.

