

Easy apple crumble pie






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 8


Recommended by
15 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This dessert combines two classics – apple pie and crumble – into one easy dessert. Make it your own by varying the fruits, sugar or by adding nuts.

  Equipment and preparation: You will need a 23cm/9in pie dish or plate.






By William Leigh






Ingredients
For the pie

375g/13oz pack ready-made sweet, all-butter shortcrust pastry
4-6 Bramley apples (about 800g/1lb 12oz)
1 tbsp lemon juice
1½ tbsp plain flour
½ tsp ground cinnamon
½ tsp freshly grated nutmeg
100g/3½oz golden caster sugar, plus a little extra for sprinkling
50g/2oz raisins or sultanas, or fresh blackberries (optional)

For the crumble topping

85g/3oz plain flour
pinch fine salt
85g/3oz unsalted butter, cut into small cubes
4 tbsp caster sugar
handful porridge oats (optional)




Method


Lightly cover the work surface with flour, then roll out the shortcrust pastry until it is about 3cm/1½in larger than the pie plate.


Flip the pastry up over the rolling pin, then lift the pastry over the plate or tin. Press it into the tin, then trim the edge with a sharp knife. Chill the pastry while you make the filling.


Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5 and put a baking sheet on the middle shelf.


For the crumble topping, sift the flour and salt into a large bowl, then add the butter. Rub the butter into the flour using your fingertips until the mix looks like rough breadcrumbs.


Stir in the sugar and, if you like, a handful of oats. Chill the crumble topping in the fridge while you prepare the apples.


Peel the apples, cut in half, then into chunky slices, cutting out the core as you go. Toss the apple slices with the lemon juice in a large bowl.


Sift over the flour, cinnamon and nutmeg and mix well to coat. Tip in the sugar, reserving some for the topping, and add in the raisins or fruit, if using. Mix well.


Pile the apples into the pastry lined tin, scatter with the crumble mix and then a final sprinkling of sugar. (It will seem to be heaped high but will reduce and settle during baking.) Bake the pie for 30 minutes, or until the pastry and crumble are golden and crisp. Serve warm with cream or ice cream.



