

The best chicken stir-fry






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
20 people



Chicken stir fry is very quick and easy to make, with plenty of flavour and healthy vegetables.

  This meal provides 674 kcal, 53g protein, 60g carbohydrate (of which 14g sugars), 23g fat (of which 4.5g saturates), 9g fibre and 2g salt per portion.






By Jane Hornby






Ingredients

1 chicken or vegetable stock cube or similar
2 nests egg noodles
100g/3½oz Tenderstem broccoli, cut into finger-lengths
2 skinless chicken breasts (or you can use pork tenderloin)
200g/7oz mushrooms, shiitake or chestnut, halved or quartered
1 red onion, thickly sliced
1 red pepper, deseeded and thickly sliced
1 garlic clove, thinly sliced
thumb-size piece fresh root ginger, thinly sliced
1 tbsp vegetable or sunflower oil
½ tsp dried chilli flakes
3 tbsp hoisin sauce, mixed with 2 tbsp water
1-2 tsp sesame oil
handful cashew nuts or peanuts




Method


Bring a pan of water to the boil, add the stock cube and let it dissolve. Add the noodles and bring back up to the boil.


Add the broccoli and boil for two minutes until the broccoli and noodles are just tender, then drain, rinse with cold water and set aside in the colander.


Cut the chicken into strips, and prepare the mushrooms, onion, pepper, garlic and ginger.


Heat one teaspoon of the vegetable oil in a large non-stick frying pan or wok, then add the chicken. Stir-fry the chicken for two minutes over a high heat until browned.


Take the chicken out of pan, and set aside on a plate while the vegetables are cooked.


Return the pan to the heat and add the remaining oil. Add the peppers, onions and mushrooms. Stir and cook for couple of minutes until just tender, but still brightly coloured, and the mushrooms are just browned.


Add the garlic, ginger and chilli flakes then sizzle for a few seconds till fragrant.


Tip in the drained noodles, broccoli and the chicken and stir-fry until the noodles are hot. Add the hoisin sauce and water mixture, then mix so everything is coated in the sauce. If the noodles seem a bit dry, add a splash more water. To finish, drizzle with the sesame oil, scatter with the roasted nuts and serve immediately.



