

How to make pea and ham soup




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2-4


Recommended by
29 people



Pea and ham soup is a really satisfying dinner, ready in 15 minutes, using simple ingredients you probably already have in the cupboard.

  Equipment and preparation: For this recipe you will need a stick blender.

  This meal, if served as four portions, provides 236kcal, 17g protein, 25g carbohydrate (of which 7g sugars), 6g fat (of which 2g saturates), 6g fibre and 0.9g salt per portion.






By Jane Hornby






Ingredients

1 tbsp vegetable oil
1 medium onion, finely chopped
1 large potato (about 250g/9oz), cut into small cubes
300g/10½oz frozen petits pois or garden peas
400ml/14fl oz chicken stock, or vegetable stock if preferred
200ml/7fl oz semi-skimmed or whole milk
100g/3½oz thick cut ham
small handful fresh mint leaves, optional
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


Heat the oil in a large saucepan on low or medium heat, then add the onion and potato, season with salt and pepper, then stir to coat the vegetables in the oil.


Take a piece of baking paper large enough to cover the top of the pan, scrunch it up then unfold it. Lay the paper over the surface of the vegetables, sealing them in right to the edges of the pan (this helps cook the vegetables more quickly). Put a lid on the pan, cook on a low heat for 8-10 minutes, until the potatoes are tender and the onions are soft and translucent.


Remove the paper. Add the peas and stock to the pan, then bring to the boil. Cook for a couple of minutes, or until all of the peas have floated to the top and are tender and bright.


Take the pan off the heat. Using a stick blender, process the peas until very smooth. Add the milk (or, if preferred, use more stock, water or cream). Tear in most of the ham. Bring the soup back to a simmer, then season to taste with salt and pepper, remembering that the ham is fairly salty.


To serve, ladle the soup into bowls then scatter with the rest of the ham and a few torn mint leaves.



