

How to make trifle






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
11 people



This recipe uses ready made custard and cake, leaving you time to make some homemade jelly with berries and apple juice.






By William Leigh






Ingredients
For the base

500g/1lb 2oz frozen summer fruit (raspberries, blackberries, strawberries, blackcurrants and redcurrants work well)
50g/2oz caster sugar, or more to taste
2 tbsp blackcurrant or raspberry liqueur (cassis or Chambord)
500ml/18fl oz cloudy apple juice
5 sheets leaf gelatine
250g/9oz madiera cake

For the custard

250g/9oz mascarpone
500ml/18floz ready-made vanilla custard

For the topping

300ml/½ pint whipping cream
handful toasted almonds or hazelnuts, to serve




Method


Put the fruit into a saucepan, add the sugar, then cook gently until the sugar has dissolved and the liquid is slightly syrupy. Remove half of the berries and juice to a bowl, stir in a tablespoon of cassis, then set aside to cool.


Add the apple juice to the fruit in the pan, and bring to a simmer. Taste the fruit, and add a little more sugar if necessary. Remove from the heat, and add the remaining cassis.


Soak the gelatine leaves in a bowl of cold water for five minutes, until soft and floppy. Lift the gelatin from the water and squeeze out the excess liquid.


Add the gelatine to the fruit in the pan and stir until it has completely dissolved. Remove from the heat, and transfer the jelly mix to a bowl. Allow to cool, then chill in the fridge until the mix has set to a softly wobbling jelly.


Cut the madeira cake into 1cm/½in slices. Give the fruity jelly a stir - it should be softly set. Layer the cake, jelly, fruit and juice in the bottom of a trifle dish (roughly 20cm/8in diameter).


For the custard layer, put the mascarpone into a large bowl then add the custard. Whisk together until creamy and smooth. Spoon the custard over the fruit and sponge.


Whip the cream until soft peaks form when you remove the whisk from the mixture.


Spoon the cream over the top of the trifle, starting from the outside and working in. This will avoid the cream sinking into the custard.


Chill the trifle for an hour before serving.


Finish with a scattering of toasted almonds.



