

Hummus chickpea burgers




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 8


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These tasty vegetarian burgers are easy to make and brilliant for a healthy family dinner. The burgers are freezer friendly so perfect for making ahead.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a food processor.

  Each burger provides 423 kcal, 14g protein, 64g carbohydrate (of which 6g sugars), 13g fat (of which 1.5g saturates), 5g fibre and 2.1g salt.






By Justine Pattison






Ingredients

3-4 tbsp sunflower oil
1 onion, roughly chopped
2 garlic cloves, thinly sliced
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground coriander
400g tin chickpeas, drained and rinsed
100g/3½oz hummus
50g/2oz plain flour
½ tsp salt
freshly ground black pepper
50g/2oz pine nuts or cashews

To serve

8 pitta breads, warmed
mixed green salad
8 tbsp plain yoghurt (optional)
8 tsp chilli sauce




Method


Heat 1 tablespoon of the oil in a non-stick frying pan over a medium heat. Add the onion and garlic and fry gently for 4-5 minutes, or until softened, stirring regularly. Stir in the cumin and coriander and fry for 1-2 minutes, or until fragrant. Remove from the heat and set aside to cool for 5 minutes.


Place in a food processor, add half of the chickpeas and all of the hummus and flour. Season with salt and pepper. Blend to a rough paste.


Add the remaining chickpeas and the pine nuts. Pulse for a few seconds until the chickpeas and pine nuts have broken down but retain some texture. Season to taste.


Divide the chickpea mixture into 8 portions. Roll each into a ball, flatten between your palms into a burger shape approximately 1.5cm/½in thick.


Heat the remaining oil in a large, non-stick frying pan. Add the burgers in batches and fry for 3-4 minutes on each side, or until golden-brown and crisp on both sides and heated through.


Serve the burgers in pitta breads stuffed with salad leaves, with a dollop of yoghurt and chilli sauce alongside.




Recipe Tips
These burgers are delicious cold, so they make brilliant packed lunches. Mini versions of the burgers also work well as canapés, topped with a dab of chilli jam and garnished with sprigs of fresh coriander.

