

Iberico pork pluma with spring onion and black pepper miso



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2



A special cut of pork is given even more amazing flavour with miso and black pepper rub.





By Ross Shonhan


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the black pepper and spring onion miso

55g/2oz freshly ground black peppercorns
400g/14oz spring onions, finely chopped
60g/2¼oz garlic, finely chopped
250g/9oz white miso paste
large pinch sea salt
50ml/2fl oz soy sauce
5 tbsp rice vinegar
5 tbsp vegetable oil

For the salad

20g/¾oz carrot, cut into fine julienne strips
20g/¾oz cucumber, cut into fine julienne strips
20g/¾oz daikon, cut into fine julienne strips
20g/¾oz leek, white part only, cut into fine julienne strips
10g shiso leaves (available online), cut into fine julienne strips

For the salad dressing

3 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice
pinch sea salt

For the pork pluma

2 pork pluma (each weighing approximately175-225g/6-8oz), trimmed
100g/3½oz unsalted butter
50ml/2fl oz vegetable oil
5 tbsp rice vinegar




Method


To make the miso, put all of the ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. This will make more miso than required, but it will keep in the fridge for weeks and can be rubbed on almost any meat


For the salad, mix all of the ingredients together, put in a colander and wash under running water for about 10 minutes. Drain well.


For the salad dressing, mix the lemon juice and salt together.


To cook the pork pluma, heat a non-stick frying pan to medium heat and add the butter and oil.


Rub the pork heavily with the miso rub and place in the pan. Cook for about 2-3 minutes on each side or until cooked through. Remove from the pan and leave to rest for 1 minute.


Remove the pan from the heat and de-glaze it with the rice vinegar. Add a tablespoon of the fresh miso to mix through to make a sauce.


Lightly dress the salad just before serving.


Slice the pork and place on a serving plate with a spoon of sauce and the salad on top.



