

Iced strawberry nougat



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
5 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Michel Roux's impressive strawberry dessert can be made ahead of time and kept in the freezer until ready to serve.






By Michel Roux Jr.


From Great British Food Revival






Ingredients
For the strawberry sauce

250g/9oz strawberries, hulled, halved if large
2 tbsp runny honey
sugar, to taste

For the caramelised hazelnuts

100g/3½oz caster sugar
100g/3½oz blanched hazelnuts

For the iced nougat

6 free-range egg whites
225g/8oz caster sugar
125g/4½oz strawberries, hulled, halved if large
2 tsp vanilla extract
375ml/13fl oz whipping cream, whipped until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed




Method


Preheat the oven to 140C/275F/Gas 1.


For the strawberry sauce, mix the strawberries and runny honey together in a bowl, then tip out onto a wire rack set over a baking tray. Dry the strawberries in the oven for four hours, or until dry but still soft.


Reserve some strawberries for the garnish and blend the remainder in a blender until smooth. Add sugar, to taste.


For the caramelised hazelnuts, heat the sugar in a pan over a high heat until melted and golden-brown. Stir in the hazelnuts and continue to cook for another 1-2 minutes.


Tip the mixture out onto a tray lined with greaseproof paper. Set aside to cool completely, then break into small pieces using a rolling pin.


Put the egg whites and sugar in a bowl set over a pan of simmering water (do not let the base of the bowl touch the water). Whisk the mixture until frothy and the sugar has dissolved.


Remove the bowl from the heat and continue to whisk until the base of the bowl is cool and the mixture holds firm peaks when the whisk is removed.


Fold in the caramelised hazelnuts, strawberries, vanilla and cream. Spoon the mixture into six lightly oiled individual moulds or a terrine. Freeze overnight.


To serve, dip the moulds in a little hot water for a few seconds, then turn out onto a plate. Drizzle the strawberry sauce around the plate.



