

Instant coffee meringue gâteau






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 6-8


Recommended by
1 person



This gorgeous gâteau makes a showstopping dessert that can be whipped together in minutes.

  For this recipe you will need a 20cm/8in loose-bottomed tart tin and a chef's blow torch.






By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients
For the gâteau

6 free-range egg whites
200g/7oz caster sugar
100g/3½oz icing sugar, sifted, plus extra for dusting
2 tbsp coffee essence
500g/1lb 2oz mascarpone
175ml/6fl oz double cream
1 vanilla pod, split lengthways, seeds scraped out using a sharp knife
2 large sponge flan cases (about 250g/9oz each, or 25cm/10in across)
175ml/6fl oz cold espresso

To serve

2 tbsp cocoa powder
10 small ready-made meringue shells, crushed
4 white marshmallows, cut into quarters
50g/2oz dark chocolate, finely grated




Method


Whisk the egg whites in a large bowl until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed.


Tip in the caster sugar and icing sugar and continue to whisk for 4-5 minutes more, or until stiff, glossy peaks form when the whisk is removed.


Whisk in the coffee essence, then set the mixture aside.


In a separate bowl, beat together the mascarpone, double cream and vanilla seeds until smooth and well combined.


Using the ring from the tart tin, stamp out the centres of the flan cases. Cut each disc of sponge in half horizontally to form two thinner discs (four in total).


Place the ring from the loose-bottomed tart tin onto a serving plate, then lay one sponge disc on top of it. Brush over one-quarter of the cold espresso, then spread over one-third of the mascarpone cream mixture.


Repeat the layering process with the remaining sponge discs, cold espresso, and mascarpone mixture, topping the cake with the final sponge disc.


Spoon the egg-white mixture on the cake and spread all over the top and sides in an even layer using a palette knife.


Using a chefs' blow torch, heat the meringue until crisp and light golden-brown.


To serve, dust the top of the gâteau with cocoa powder. Sprinkle over the marshmallows and crushed meringue shells, then garnish with grated dark chocolate. Dust with icing sugar just before serving.




Recipe Tips
Tip: If you have any coffee-meringue mixture left over, spread it onto a lightly greased baking tray and bake in the oven set to its lowest temperature for 2 hours or more, until crisp. Crumble up the baked meringue and use as a garnish for this gâteau, or in another recipe.

