

Jerk chicken, rice and pea cakes and slaw



Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people



A Caribbean dish full of spicy flavours served with an unusual take on rice and peas.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the jerk chicken spice mix

1 onion, finely chopped
1 spring onion, finely chopped
½ Scotch bonnet chilli, seeds removed, finely chopped
2.5cm/1in piece of root ginger, grated
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp ground allspice
2 tsp mixed herbs
1 tsp salt
1 tsp black pepper
3 tbsp all-purpose seasoning
1 tsp nutmeg
2 garlic cloves, crushed
2 tbsp chopped dried thyme leaves
2 limes, juice only

For the chicken

1 whole chicken, spatchcocked
dash olive oil

For the rice and pea cakes

50g/1¾oz butter
4 spring onions, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, peeled but left whole
¼ scotch bonnet chilli, finely diced
2 sprigs fresh thyme
250g/9oz risotto rice
600ml/1 pint chicken stock
200g/7oz fresh peas
50g/1¾oz parmesan, grated
2 tbsp olive oil

For the slaw

2 medium free-range eggs, yolks only
1 tsp Dijon mustard
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
300ml/10½fl oz sunflower oil
1 celeriac, peeled and thinly sliced
2 large carrots, peeled and thinly sliced
1 lemon, juice only
1 tbsp Dijion mustard
2 tbsp chopped fresh chives




Method


For the jerk chicken, preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Place all the ingredients for the jerk spice mix in a blender and blend until you have a rough paste.


Spread the mixture all over the chicken and leave to marinade for at least an hour.


Heat a large griddle pan, drizzle a little oil over the chicken and place skin-side down on the griddle. Cook for five minutes, turn over and place in the oven for 40-45 minutes, or until cooked through.


For the rice and pea cakes, heat a large pan and add the butter. Add the onion, cook for a couple of minutes and then add the garlic, chilli and thyme and cook for a further minute.


Add the rice and stir to coat the rice. Gradually add the stock a little at a time until all the stock has gone and you have a creamy risotto. Finish by adding the fresh peas and parmesan.


Allow to go cold and then set aside in the fridge.


To make the rice and pea cakes, heat a large frying pan and add the oil. Once hot take a tablespoon of cold risotto and shape into a small cake the size of a fish cake and fry for a couple of minutes each side.


For the slaw, add the egg yolks to a small food processor and add the mustard and vinegar. Start the motor on the processor and gradually add the oil a little at a time to make mayonnaise.


Place the sliced celeriac and carrot in a large glass bowl and add the mayonnaise, lemon juice, mustard and chives.


To serve carve the chicken into portions and place on a plate with the rice and pea cakes and slaw.




Recipe Tips
You can buy the all-purpose seasoning, or make up your own by mixing together the following ingredients: 1 tsp dried basil, 1 tsp ground mace, 1 tsp dried marjoram, 1 tsp ground cloves, 1 tsp dried thyme, 1 tsp ground nutmeg, 1 tsp oregano, 1 tsp black pepper, 1 tsp dried parsley, ½ tsp cayenne pepper, 1 tsp summer savoury. (It will keep for several weeks in an airtight container.)

