

Kale and quinoa sauté with orange tahini dressing




Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Hemsley and Hemsley’s quick and easy warm kale salad makes for a fantastic and healthy vegan meal.

  This meal provides 464 kcal, 19g protein, 48g carbohydrate (of which 7g sugars), 22g fat (of which 4g saturates), 7g fibre and 0.3g salt per portion.






By Hemsley + Hemsley






Ingredients
For the kale and quinoa sauté

350g/12oz quinoa
1 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
2 tsp coconut oil
600g/1lb 5½oz kale, tough stalks discarded, leaves shredded, washed
1 fat garlic clove, finely chopped
1 large handful chopped fresh coriander or flatleaf parsley, to garnish
1 unwaxed orange, zest only, finely sliced

For the tahini dressing

2½ tbsp tahini
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 garlic clove
6 tbsp warm (boiled) water
4 tbsp orange juice
freshly ground black pepper




Method


Put the quinoa in a bowl and cover with approximately 700ml/1¼ pints cold water. Set aside to soak overnight (or for at least 8 hours).


Drain the quinoa and transfer to a very large saucepan. Cover with 350ml/12fl oz water and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for 10-12 minutes, or until the quinoa is tender.


Drain the quinoa and put in a large mixing bowl. Drizzle over the olive oil and season with sea salt.


Meanwhile, for the dressing, whisk together all of the dressing ingredients until smooth, creamy and well combined, adding a splash of warm water to loosen the mixture if necessary. Season with pepper. Set aside.


Heat the coconut oil in a frying pan over a medium heat until melted. Add the kale and stir-fry for 1-2 minutes, adding the garlic after 1 minute. Continue to fry until the kale is just tender, then tip it into the quinoa and stir to combine.


To serve, divide the kale and quinoa sauté equally among 4 plates, garnish with the orange zest. Drizzle over the tahini dressing and scatter over the herbs.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: Cover any leftover dressing in a layer of oil and store in an airtight jar in the fridge for up to 5 days.

  Tip 2: If you don’t have time to soak the quinoa, wash it thoroughly under cold running water, then cook according to the packet instructions.

