

Lamb and lentil curry




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
5 people



This rich and satisfying lamb and lentil curry uses a great-value cut of meat for a tasty dinner on a budget. This dish is great for making ahead, check the tips section for freezing instructions.

  This meal provides 490 kcal, 36g protein, 28g carbohydrate (of which 7g sugars), 26g fat (of which 9g saturates), 5g fibre and 2.3g salt per portion.








By Justine Pattison






Ingredients

2 tbsp sunflower oil
500g/1lb 2oz lamb neck fillets, trimmed, cut into 3cm/1¼in chunks
2 onions, roughly chopped
3 large garlic cloves, roughly chopped
3 tbsp medium curry paste
1 x 400g tin chopped tomatoes
150g/5½oz dried split red lentils, rinsed and drained
1 tsp salt, plus extra to season
75g/2½oz curly kale (or mature spinach leaves), rinsed, shredded, any tough stalks discarded
freshly ground black pepper
steamed rice or naan bread, to serve




Method


Heat the oil in a large, lidded, non-stick saucepan over a medium heat. Add the lamb, onions and garlic and fry for 5-6 minutes until lightly browned, stirring regularly.


Add the curry paste and stir well to coat the lamb and onions. Continue to cook for 1-2 minutes, stirring well, then add the tomatoes, lentils, 500ml/18fl oz water and salt. Bring the mixture to the boil. Reduce the heat until the mixture is simmering, then half-cover the pan with the lid and simmer very gently for 45-50 minutes, stirring regularly, until the lamb is very tender. (Add a little extra water if the curry is beginning to look dry before the lamb is tender.)


Season with salt and pepper, stir in the kale and simmer for a further 2-3 minutes, or until tender.


Serve in bowls with steamed rice or warm naan bread.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: This dish can be cooked in a slow cooker. Follow the recipe up to the end of step 2, using 350ml/12fl oz water instead of 500ml/18fl oz. Transfer the ingredients to a large slow cooker, cover and cook on high for 3½ hours or until the lamb and lentils are just tender. (Or on low for longer.) Stir in the kale, cover and cook for a further 5-10 minutes or until the kale has softened.

  Tip 2: This curry is suitable for freezing, but the rice is not. Divide the curry between freezer-proof containers, it will keep in the freezer for up to 2 months.

  Tip 3: This dish can be prepared in advance - just add 150ml boiling water to the curry when you reheat it.

  Tip 4: The lamb can be swapped for 6 boneless, skinless chicken thighs, each cut in half.

