

Lamb cooked on hay, served with boulangère potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
4 people



Cooking lamb in hay gives it a delightfully earthy and smoky taste. Buy clean hay from a pet shop or garden centre.






By Tom Kitchin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the boulangère potatoes

dash olive oil
1 onion, thinly sliced
1 leek, thinly sliced
1 fennel, thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves
1 fresh thyme sprig
1 tsp fennel seeds
50g/2oz butter
500ml/18fl oz lamb or chicken stock
700g/1lb 9oz potatoes
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the lamb cooked on hay

dash olive oil
½ bag of hay (clean eating hay from the petshop and not bedding hay)
1 rack of lamb, French trimmed




Method


For the boulangère potatoes, preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 2.


Heat a heavy-based pan, add some oil, then add the sliced onion, leek, fennel, garlic, thyme, fennel seeds and fry for 3-4 minutes.


Meanwhile, bring the stock to the boil in a saucepan and grease a small ovenproof dish with a little of the butter.


Slice the potatoes thinly on a mandoline and start to layer up the dish with alternating layers of potato and the onion mixture, seasoning with salt and freshly ground black pepper in between.


For the final layer, arrange the potatoes in a neat layer and pour over the hot stock.


Add a couple of knobs of butter, cover with foil and bake for one hour. Remove the foil and cook for another 30 minutes, or until cooked and crisp.


For the lamb, turn the oven up to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Heat a dash of olive oil in a cocotte (a cast iron casserole dish with a lid) placed over a stove top and brown the lamb all over. Remove the lamb from the cocotte.


Add the hay and a little more oil, just until the hay starts to smoke, then place the lamb on top and cover with the lid.


Bake in the oven for 12-15 minutes, or until the lamb is pink.


To serve, remove the lamb from the hay, rest for 5-10 minutes, then carve and serve with the boulangère potatoes.



