

Lamb fore shanks with English vegetables




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
5 people



For this recipe I have used lamb fore shanks, taken from the front leg. I find a whole leg shank tends to be too much for one person, whereas a fore shank, being smaller, provides the perfect amount. Ask your butcher for these if you can’t find them in the supermarket.






By Mary Berry


From Mary Berry's Absolute Favourites






Ingredients

3 tbsp oil
6 x 200g/7oz lamb fore shanks
2 onions, sliced
2 garlic cloves, crushed
1 rounded tbsp plain flour
300ml/10fl oz red wine
450ml/16fl oz chicken stock
1 tbsp redcurrant jelly
1 tbsp chopped rosemary leaves
250g/9oz baby carrots, cut in half lengthways if large
250g/9oz parsnips, cut into batons
250g/9oz baby turnips, cut in half lengthways if large
a knob of butter
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tbsp chopped parsley, to garnish




Method


Preheat the oven to 160C/140C Fan/Gas 3.


Heat 2 tablespoons of the oil in a deep, ovenproof frying pan or flameproof casserole dish and brown the lamb shanks all over on a high heat for 5–6 minutes or until golden-brown. Remove with a slotted spoon and set aside.


Add the remaining oil and the onion and garlic and fry over a medium heat for 3–4 minutes until soft. Measure the flour into a bowl, pour in the wine and whisk into a smooth paste. Add the stock to the onions, then add the wine and flour mixture and, stirring continuously, bring to the boil. Add the redcurrant jelly and rosemary and stir until thickened.


Place the browned lamb back in the pan, season with salt and pepper, then cover with a lid and transfer to the oven to cook for about 2 hours or until the lamb is tender and just falling off the bone.


When ready to serve, bring a saucepan of salted water to the boil, add the carrots, parsnips and turnips and boil for 8–10 minutes or until tender. Drain.


Add a third of the vegetables to the lamb casserole and stir. Melt a knob of butter in a frying pan and fry the remaining vegetables over a high heat for 4–5 minutes or until golden-brown. Season with salt and pepper and remove from the hob.


Serve one fore shank per person with some of the sauce and vegetables from the casserole and extra fried vegetables on the side. Garnish with the chopped parsley to finish.




Recipe Tips
‘Batons’ is just a posh name for vegetables cut into long strips.

  Prepare ahead: cook the lamb casserole 1–2 days in advance and prepare the vegetables shortly before serving.

