

Lamb and bulgar wheat-stuffed aubergines



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person







By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the lamb and bulgar wheat stuffing

2 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, peeled, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, peeled, crushed
450g/1lb minced lamb
50g/2oz raisins
1 tsp ground cinnamon
pinch ground cloves
1 tbsp chopped fresh mint
200g/7oz bulgar wheat, cooked according to packet instructions
6 tomatoes, chopped

For the aubergines

2-3 large aubergines
100ml/3½fl oz olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

Greek-style yoghurt
fresh mint leaves
pomegranate seeds




Method


For the lamb and bulgar wheat stuffing, heat the olive oil in a pan and fry the onion and garlic for 4-5 minutes, or until softened.


Add the lamb and fry for a further 4-5 minutes, or until browned, then add the raisins, ground cinnamon, ground cloves, mint, bulgar wheat and tomatoes. Mix well, then remove from the heat and set aside.


Preheat the oven to 180C/355F/Gas 4.


For the aubergines, top and tail the aubergines, then slice each one in half to create two cylinder shapes per aubergine. Stand each aubergine piece on one end on a baking tray, and cut criss cross patterns across the tops. Brush with the olive oil, season with salt and freshly ground pepper and cook for 12-15 minutes in the oven, or until softened.


Remove the aubergines from the oven. Using a small glass slightly smaller than the circumference of the aubergines, press down to hollow out the aubergine (do not press down all the way through, so the aubergine flesh will be packed down towards the bottom end of the aubergine).


Spoon the lamb and bulgar wheat mixture into the aubergines, packing the mixture in tightly. Place back into the oven for 4-5 minutes, to heat through.


To serve, place a piece of stuffed aubergine on each serving plate, and spoon some Greek-style yoghurt alongside. Sprinkle over the mint leaves and pomegranate seeds.



