

Lambs' liver and kidney, with braised kale and crushed potatoes



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people



Lambs' liver and kidney take centre stage in this dish. These cuts are packed with flavour and great value for money. Serve with kale and potatoes for a cheap gourmet meal.






By Richard Corrigan


From Food & Drink






Ingredients

2 large red onions, thinly sliced
1 tsp rapeseed oil
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
pinch caster sugar
500g/1lb 2oz medium-size floury potatoes, peeled
5 tbsp milk
110g/3¾oz butter
300g/10½ oz kale, stemmed and chopped into 2.5cm/1in pieces, reserve a few leaves for garnish
4-5 bacon rashers, rind on
vegetable oil, for frying
500g/1lb 2oz lambs liver, unsliced
small bunch sage, bruised
3 garlic cloves, crushed
8 lambs’ kidneys, cut into quarters
2 tbsp ground cumin
salt and freshly ground black pepper




Method


Bring a saucepan of water to the boil and blanch the onions for 5 minutes to soften. Drain and transfer to a bowl. Add the rapeseed oil, Dijon mustard, sugar and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Set aside.


Cook the potatoes in a pan of boiling, salted water for about 20 minutes or until they are just tender. (Be careful not overcook them as you want a bit of resistance in the potatoes.) Drain the potatoes in a colander, return them to the pan and dry them out over a very low heat.


Gently heat the milk. While the potatoes are warm, crush them roughly in the pot with the back of a fork. Add the hot milk and 60g/2¼ oz butter.


Boil the kale in hot water for 4 minutes, then drain thoroughly. Add it to the crushed potatoes and season with salt and pepper. Set aside.


Fry the bacon in a dry frying pan until crisp. Drain on kitchen paper and chop into small pieces. Fry the reserved kale leaves in a dry pan until crisp and charred.


For the liver, heat a little vegetable oil in a frying pan until very hot. Place the liver in the pan with the bruised sage. Season with salt and pepper and add the remaining butter and 2 cloves of garlic. Cook for about 3-4 minutes on both sides, regularly basting with the melted butter. Remove the liver from the pan and set it aside to rest.


Add the kidneys to the pan with the cumin and remaining garlic. Flash-fry for 2 minutes turning frequently.


Divide the kale and potatoes between serving plates and top with the onions. Slice the liver and place on top with the kidneys and drizzle with juices from the pan. Garnish with the bacon pieces and crisp kale leaves.



