

Lamb stew with rosemary dumplings



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
19 people



Lamb stew made with neck fillet, is economical and extremely tasty, the rosemary dumplings add the perfect finish.






By Bryn Williams


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the stew

750g/1lb 10oz lamb neck fillet, cut into 2.5cm/1in cubes
salt and freshly ground black pepper
25g/1oz plain flour
1 tbsp olive oil
50g/2oz butter
12 baby onions, peeled
2 medium carrots, cut into large dice
1 medium swede, cut into large dice
50ml/2fl oz white wine
2 sprigs rosemary
4 bay leaves
1.25 litres/2 pints lamb stock
3 tbsp flatleaf parsley, roughly chopped

For the dumplings

125g/4½ oz plain flour
65g/2½ oz suet
½ tsp baking powder
pinch salt
1 tbsp rosemary, finely chopped
500ml/18fl oz lamb stock




Method


For the stew, preheat the oven to 120C/250F/Gas ½.


Season the lamb with salt and pepper and dust with the flour.


Heat a heavy-bottom casserole dish until hot, add the olive oil and butter then add the lamb and fry on each side until golden-brown.


Remove the lamb and keep to one side.


Reduce the heat and add the onions, carrots and swede and fry until caramelised.


Add the wine and simmer until the volume of liquid has reduced by half, then add the lamb and the lamb stock.


Bring the stew back up to a simmer then add the bay leaf and rosemary.


Cover with a lid, transfer the pan to the oven and bake for one hour.


For the dumplings, mix the flour, suet, baking powder and a pinch of salt in a bowl.


Add the rosemary to the flour mixture.


Gradually add small amounts of cold water, 3-5 tablespoons, or enough to form a sticky dough.


Flour your hands and then roll the dough into 12 little balls.


Place on a plate in the fridge to chill.


When the lamb stew is ready, place the 500ml/18fl oz lamb stock into a pan and bring to a simmer.


Add the dumplings and simmer for 6-8 minutes.


Remove the dumplings and set aside to rest for a minute, discarding the cooking stock.


To serve, when the lamb is ready, remove the lid and add the dumplings and parsley to the casserole dish, then serve in a shallow bowl.



