

Baked pork spare rib chops with pears, potatoes, onions and Roquefort butter



Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people







By Diana Henry


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the Roquefort butter

75g/3oz butter, at room temperature
50g/2oz Roquefort cheese, crumbled

For the pork spare rib chops

500g/1lb 2oz waxy potatoes, cut into 2mm thick slices
8 sprigs fresh thyme
6 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 red onions, peeled, cut into 8 wedges each
6 small Conference pears, halved and cored
4 x 225g/8oz spare rib chops
50g/2oz soft dark brown sugar

For the salad

110g/4oz watercress, picked
110g/4oz chicory, leaves separated
110g/4oz walnuts out of their shells, toasted
1½ tbsp red wine vinegar
½ tsp crème de cassis (optional)
2 tbsp olive oil
6 tbsp walnut oil




Method


For the Roquefort butter, place the butter and Roquefort into a bowl and mash together with a wooden spoon. Chill in the freezer for ten minutes, then spoon onto a sheet of clingfilm and roll up into a sausage shape, twisting up the ends to seal. Place into the fridge to chill for one hour, or until firm.


Preheat the oven to 200C/390F/Gas 6.


For the pork spare rib chops, place the potato slices into a roasting tin with the thyme and drizzle over half the olive oil. Season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Toss well to coat, then place the onions, pears (cut-side down) and pork chops on top.


Drizzle over the remaining oil, season again with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then toss lightly to coat in the oil.


Place into the oven to cook for 15 minutes, or until the pork is lightly golden. Reduce the oven heat to 190C/375F/Gas 5, then remove the tin from the oven.


Turn the chops over and turn over the pears so that they are cut-side up. Sprinkle the pears with the brown sugar, then return the tin to the oven. Roast for another 30-40 minutes, or until the pork is golden-brown and cooked through, the pears caramelised and the potatoes tender.


For the salad, place the watercress, chicory and walnuts into a bowl. In a smaller bowl, whisk together the vinegar, cassis and oils, then season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Drizzle the dressing over the salad, then toss well to coat.


To serve, spoon the pork chops, potatoes and pears onto four plates and place the salad alongside. Slice a knob of Roquefort butter and place over the top of the pork to melt.



