

Traditional honey-glazed gammon



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 10-20


Recommended by
88 people



Christmas isn't complete without this festive favourite - serve hot or cold for family and friends.






By The Hairy Bikers


From The Hairy Bikers' Christmas Party






Ingredients

2-4kg/4lb 8oz-9lb unsmoked boneless gammon joint, tied
2 onions, halved
2 carrots, unpeeled, cut into 5cm/2in pieces
2 celery stalks, cut into 5cm/2in pieces
4 bay leaves
12 black peppercorns
small handful cloves

For the glaze

4 tbsp runny honey
4 tbsp English mustard




Method


Place the gammon joint into a large lidded saucepan, cover with cold water and bring to the boil over a high heat. Drain the water from the saucepan, add fresh cold water, add the onions, carrots, celery, bay leaves and peppercorns and bring to the boil once more. Reduce the heat, cover with a lid and simmer the gammon and vegetables gently for twenty minutes per 500g/1lb 2oz. (If your pan is not quite large enough to cover the joint completely, turn the gammon over halfway through the cooking time.)


Remove the gammon from the water and set aside to cool for fifteen minutes. (The cooking liquid can be strained and reserved for making soup for another time.)


Pre-heat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6 and line a large roasting tin with aluminium foil.


Use a small knife to remove the rind from the gammon joint, leaving as much of the fat intact as possible. Score the fat in a diamond pattern, and push a clove into the centre of each 'X'.


Place the gammon into the foil-lined roasting tray, ensuring that the sides of the foil come half way up the joint to contain any roasting juices.


For the glaze, mix the honey and mustard together and brush half of it evenly over the gammon, including one side of the joint. Roast in the centre of the oven for ten minutes, then take the joint out and brush the top and remaining side with the rest of the glaze. Return the gammon to the oven for a further 10-15 minutes, rotating the roasting tin so that the opposite side of the gammon faces the back of the oven.


The gammon is ready when the fat on top is glossy and golden brown. Cover loosely with foil if the top begins to look too brown. Remove the gammon from the oven and set aside to rest for 15 minutes before carving.


Pour any juices that have collected in the aluminium foil into a small pan, and warm through gently.


Carve the gammon, serve on a large platter and spoon over the warmed juices .




Recipe Tips
If the gammon is to be served cold, remove the joint from the fridge and allow to come to room temperature for 30 minutes.

