

Lemon cake served with a goats’ cheese cream, lemon curd, sugared almonds and roasted rhubarb



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Lemon drizzle cake always goes down a storm, so why not serve it with some fancy sides for an impressive make-ahead dessert?






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the lemon cake

75g/2½oz unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing
3 medium free range eggs
2 lemons, zest and juice only
200g/7oz caster sugar
75g/2½oz crème fraîche
150g/5½oz plain flour
1 tsp baking powder

For the glaze

75g/2½oz icing sugar
1 lemon, juice only

For the roasted rhubarb

300g/10½oz rhubarb, cut in 2cm/¾in pieces
1 tbsp caster sugar
1 orange, juice only

For the lemon curd

4 lemons, zest and juice
110g/4oz butter
175g/6oz caster sugar
4 free-range eggs, beaten

For the goats’ cheese cream

110g/4oz mild soft goats' cheese
50ml/2fl oz double cream
2 tbsp icing sugar

To serve

100g/3½oz candied almonds
4 tbsp lemon balm leaves or baby basil leaves




Method


For the lemon cake, preheat the oven to 180C/170C Fan/Gas 3. Grease and line a 20cm/8in square cake tin.


Melt the butter and set aside to cool slightly. Put the eggs, lemon juice and sugar in a bowl. Using an electric whisk, beat until the sugar is dissolved. Whisk in the butter and crème fraiche. Sift the flour and baking powder over the top and gently fold in. Stir in the lemon zest and spoon into the prepared tin.


Bake for 45-60 minutes, or until golden-brown and risen (the cake will split along the top). Put the cake on a wire rack to cool for 10 minutes before removing from the tin. Place a tray or a piece of baking paper underneath the rack.


For the glaze, whisk the icing sugar and lemon juice together in a bowl then pour over the still warm cake. Remove the tray or paper from underneath the cake and pour any excess back over the cake. Allow to cool before serving.


For the roasted rhubarb, preheat the oven to 200C/180C Fan/Gas 6.


Arrange the rhubarb in a single layer in a roasting tin. Sprinkle over the sugar and drizzle over the orange juice. Roast for 8-12 minutes, or until just tender.


For the lemon curd, put a heatproof bowl over a pan a gently simmering water (don’t let the bowl touch the water). Put the lemon zest, juice, butter and sugar in the bowl and whisk occasionally until the sugar is completely dissolved. Beat in the eggs and whisk until thickened and cooked through. Remove from the heat and allow to cool completely.


For the sugared almonds, preheat the oven to 130C/110C Fan/Gas 1 and line a baking tray with baking paper.


For the goat’s cheese cream, put all the ingredients in a bowl and mix well.


To serve, cut the cake into cubes or small slices and arrange on serving plates. Dress the plate with lemon curd, roasted rhubarb, goats’ cheese cream, sugared almonds and lemon balm or baby basil leaves.



