

Lemon crème brûlée, marinated figs and pistachio



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Lemon-scented crème brûlée served with figs marinated in rosewater and pistachio nut brittle – this is some sophisticated dessert.

  Equipment and preparation: You will need a mini chef’s blowtorch.






By Lesley Waters


From Chefs: Put Your Menu Where Your Mouth Is






Ingredients
For the crème brulée

450ml/16fl oz double cream
50ml/2fl oz lemon juice
1 lemon, zest only
5 free-range egg yolks
100g/3½oz caster sugar

For the figs

2 figs, quartered
1 tsp caster sugar
2 tbsp rosewater

For the brittle

100g/3½oz caster sugar
100g/3½oz pistachio nuts




Method


For the crème brûlée, preheat the oven to 150C/300F/Gas 2.


Mix together the cream, lemon juice and lemon zest in a saucepan and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat and simmer gently for 10 minutes, whisking continuously. Remove from the heat and set aside.


In a heatproof bowl, whisk together the eggs and sugar until light and frothy.


Add the boiled cream to the eggs and mix well.


Pour the mixture into individual moulds placed in a roasting tin. Cover the base of the tin with water to make a bain marie. Place in the oven for about 30 minutes, or until they are set on the edges but still wobbly in the centre. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool.


For the figs, preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 3. Place the figs on a baking tray and sprinkle them with sugar and rosewater. Bake the figs for six minutes.


For the brittle, line a baking tray with greaseproof paper. Place the sugar into a saucepan over a low heat. Once the sugar has completely melted, add the nuts. Pour the mixture onto the prepared tray and leave to cool.


When set, break the brittle into shards.


For the crème brûlée, cover the tops with an even layer of caster sugar and caramelise using a chef's blowtorch.


Serve the crème brûlée with the figs and brittle.



