

Lemon sole goujons, marie-rose sauce and crushed minted peas



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
2 people



A treat of a fish supper for two: homemade fish fingers served with a flavour-packed marie-rose sauce and posh mushy peas.






By Tom Kerridge


From Spring Kitchen with Tom Kerridge






Ingredients
For the lemon sole goujons

1 large lemon sole, filleted and skinned
50g/1¾oz plain flour, seasoned with salt and pepper
50g/1¾oz Japanese panko breadcrumbs
3 whole free-range eggs, whisked
vegetable oil, for deep-fat frying
sea salt, to taste

For the crushed minted peas

20g/¾oz butter
1 large banana shallot, diced
30g/1oz mint, separated into leaves and stalks, stalks tied together with cook's string
200g/7oz fresh peas, blanched in a pan of boiling water and refreshed in a bowl of cold water
10g sugar
5g malt vinegar

For the marie-rose sauce

40g/1½oz tomato ketchup
60g/2¼oz mayonnaise
2 splashes Tabasco
½ lemon juice
2 splashes Worcestershire sauce
splash brandy (optional)
pinch cayenne pepper




Method


For the lemon sole goujons, slice the fish into thick strips with a sharp knife. Prepare a plate of the seasoned flour, a plate of breadcrumbs and a shallow dish of eggs.


Dip the fish into the seasoned flour, pat off any excess, then coat with the egg wash, let the excess drip off, then add the fish to the breadcrumbs, making sure all the fish is coated.


Heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer to 180C/350F (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Add the sole goujons to the fryer and deep fry until golden-brown, remove using a slotted spoon, transfer to a plate lined with kitchen paper and season with sea salt.


For the crushed minted peas, heat the butter in a pan and fry the shallots until softened. Add 30ml/1fl oz of water and bring to a rapid boil with the mint stalks and sugar. Add the peas and boil for 20 seconds and then drain.


Remove the stalks and put the peas into a food processor with the mint leaves. Pulse for 10 seconds to make a crushed pea texture and check for seasoning, adding salt and pepper to taste. Add the malt vinegar.


For the marie-rose sauce, mix together the ketchup, mayonnaise, Tabasco, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, brandy (if using) and cayenne pepper.


Serve the goujons with the crushed minted peas and Marie-rose sauce.



