

Lemon sole goujons with watercress and tartare sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
2 people



Posh fried fish is the order of the day with this easy recipe for beer-battered perfection.






By Angela Hartnett


From Great British Food Revival






Ingredients

For the batter

250g/9oz plain flour
60g/2¾oz cornflour
300ml/10½fl oz sparkling ale
300ml/10½fl oz soda water

For the tartare sauce

100g/3½oz ready-made mayonnaise
2 tbsp drained capers, chopped
4 gherkins, drained, chopped
1 tbsp chopped flatleaf parsley
salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste

For the fish

vegetable oil, for deep-fat frying
6 medium fillets of lemon sole, cut into strips
plain flour, for dusting fish

To serve

large bunch fresh watercress




Method


For the batter, sift the plain flour and cornflour together into a bowl.


Whisk in the ale and the soda water until the mixture is smooth and well combined. Set aside to rest for 10 minutes, then whisk again for 30 seconds.


Meanwhile, for the tartare sauce, mix together all of the tartare sauce ingredients until well combined. Chill in the fridge until needed.


To cook the fish, pour enough vegetable oil into a deep-sided, heavy-based pan to fill it by about two-thirds. Heat the oil until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns golden-brown when dropped into it. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Sprinkle a little flour onto a plate and press both sides of each of the lemon sole strips into the flour until completely covered.


Dip the floured lemon sole strips into the batter, then gently lower them into the hot oil and fry until crisp and golden-brown. Remove from the pan using a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


To serve, place a few lemon sole goujons onto each of four serving plates. Spoon a dollop of tartare sauce alongside each portion. Garnish with a handful of watercress leaves.




Recipe Tips
When fried, the batter will be crisper if no salt is added and it is not refrigerated.

