

Lemon and lime pavlova




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
16 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




End your meal on a high note with this citrus centrepiece topped with tangy passion fruit.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the meringue

150g/5½oz caster sugar
3 free-range egg whites, whisked in a clean bowl until stiff peaks form when the whisk is removed
½ tsp sherry vinegar

For the filling

2 lemons, juice and zest
3 limes, juice and zest
175g/6oz caster sugar
3 free-range eggs, plus 5 free-range egg yolks
150g/5oz butter, softened
200g/7oz double cream, whipped until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed
12 passion fruit, pulp only, to serve




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.


For the meringue, whisk the sugar, a tablespoon at a time, into the stiffened egg whites, until the mixture is smooth and glossy.


Gently fold in the sherry vinegar.


Spoon the meringue mixture onto the prepared baking tray to form a circle about 20cm/8in in diameter. Spoon the remaining meringue in dollops around the edge of the meringue, forming swirls and peaks as you go.


Transfer the meringue to the oven and immediately reduce the temperature to 150C/300F/Gas 2. Bake for 45-50 minutes, or until the meringue has hardened on the outside, but is still soft and chewy in the middle.


Meanwhile, for the filling, place the lemon juice and zest, lime juice and zest, caster sugar, eggs, egg yolks and 75g/2¾oz of the butter into a heavy-based pan. Whisk over a medium heat until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is smooth and thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.


Add the remaining butter, stirring continuously. Continue to stir until all of the butter has melted and the mixture has thickened considerably.


Remove the mixture from the heat and whisk a little, then set aside until completely cool.


To serve, place the meringue into the centre of a serving platter. Spoon the lemon and lime filling mixture into the centre, then top with the whipped cream and passion fruit pulp.




Recipe Tips
Choose wrinkled passion fruit as the ones that appear dried-out are often the ripest.

