

Treacle sponge pudding with spiced pears






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 6-8


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This steamed pudding is a deceptively easy recipe that will go down well with everyone you serve it to.

  For this recipe, you will need a terrine mould and a lidded saucepan large enough to fit it into.







By James Martin


From Home Comforts at Christmas






Ingredients
For the pudding

200g/7oz golden syrup
1 pear, peeled, thinly sliced from top to bottom
175g/6oz caster sugar
175g/6oz softened butter, plus extra for greasing
3 free-range eggs
175g/6oz self-raising flour

For the spiced pears

500ml/18fl oz sweet white wine
3 star anise
½ tsp cloves
1 cinnamon stick, broken into pieces
4 pears, peeled and cut into quarters from top to bottom
1 orange, pared zest only
1 lemon, pared zest only

For the custard

250ml/9fl oz full-fat milk
250ml/9fl oz double cream
1 vanilla pod, split in half, seeds scraped out using a sharp knife
110g/4oz caster sugar
6 free-range egg yolks




Method


Grease a 1kg/2lb 4oz rectangular terrine mould or loaf tin with butter.


Pour the golden syrup into the terrine mould, then arrange the pear slices on top in a single layer, overlapping the slices slightly.


Beat the sugar and butter until pale and fluffy. Beat in the eggs one at a time until well combined, then fold in the flour.


Spoon the sponge mixture into the terrine and smooth the top.


Cut a large rectangle of greaseproof paper and place it on top of the pudding. Fold a rectangle of aluminium foil in half to form a double layer, then crimp that around the top of the terrine and secure with cook's string.


Place the terrine into a large saucepan and add enough water to reach halfway up the sides of the terrine.


Cover the pan with a lid, bring the water to the boil, then reduce the heat until simmering. Steam the sponge pudding for 1½ hours, or until a skewer inserted into the centre of the sponge comes out clean. Checking the water level halfway through cooking.


Meanwhile, for the spiced pears, bring the sweet wine to the boil in a saucepan with the star anise, cloves, cinnamon stick, pears, orange and lemon zests. Reduce the heat and simmer for 12-15 minutes, or until the pears are tender. Set aside.


For the custard, heat the milk, cream and vanilla seeds in a saucepan over a medium heat. Bring to the boil.


Whisk the sugar and egg yolks in a bowl until pale and thick. When the milk is boiling, pour it onto the egg mixture, whisking all the time, until well combined, then return the whole mixture to the pan and cook over a gentle heat, whisking occasionally, until it has thickened enough to coat the back of a wooden spoon. Strain the custard if desired.


When the sponge pudding is cooked, turn the heat off and allow to cool slightly before removing it from the pan. Unwrap the pudding and remove the greaseproof paper. Place a plate on top of the pudding and flip it over, holding the plate firmly in place. Set aside for 1-2 minutes, then remove the terrine mould – the pudding should just slide out.


To serve, pile the pears into a serving bowl with the cooking liquid and pour the custard into a jug. Serve with the sliced sponge pudding.



