

Lime and chipotle black bean tacos



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These delicious and zesty black bean wraps are a doddle to make - but even better, everything can be made in advance.






By Anna Jones


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the beans

2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
olive oil, for frying
1 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp chipotle paste or 1 red chilli, finely chopped
2 x 400g tins black beans
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the salsa

20 cherry tomatoes
½ red chilli, deseeded and finely chopped
few sprigs fresh coriander, leaves picked
½ lime, juice only
extra virgin olive oil, to taste

For the guacamole

1 ripe avocado, stone removed and peeled
1 green chilli
½ lime, juice only

For the sweet chilli sauce

2 tbsp olive oil
1 small onion, finely chopped
½ carrot, finely chopped
250ml/9fl oz good-quality vegetable stock
1 tbsp ground cumin
3 tbsp brown sugar
1 tbsp cider vinegar
1 tsp sea salt
1 tbsp chipotle paste, or to taste
½ lemon, juice only

To serve

8 wheat or corn tortillas
4 free-range eggs, fried
handful of grated cheese, such as manchego or queso fresco
bunch breakfast radishes, cleaned and chopped
natural, sheep or coconut milk yoghurt (optional)
a few coriander sprigs




Method


For the beans, heat a frying pan over a medium heat. Add the garlic and a splash of olive oil and cook for a minute or so, until the edges of the garlic begin to just brown.


Add the cinnamon, cumin and chipotle paste or chilli and stir for another minute to gently toast the spices. Add the beans and their liquid, bring to a simmer, then turn the heat down and cook for 10-15 minutes, until the liquid has thickened but the beans are still holding their shape. If you need to, add a little hot water to loosen. Season with salt and pepper and keep warm.


For the salsa, chop the tomatoes roughly on a big board. Pile the chilli and coriander on top, season with salt and pepper and chop all this together. Scrape into a big bowl, add the lime juice and a splash of olive oil and mix well. Set aside.


For the guacamole, mash the avocado in a bowl with a little salt and pepper, the chilli and lime juice. You can use a potato masher or a fork if you like.


For the sweet chilli sauce, heat a little olive oil in a saucepan and fry the onion and carrot for 5 minutes, until soft. Add the stock and all the other ingredients apart from the lemon juice. Simmer for 5 minutes, until slightly thickened. Allow to cool a little, then transfer to a blender and pulse until smooth. Add the lemon juice, then taste, season with salt and pepper and balance the flavours by adding a little more lemon, chilli or salt if desired.


Once everything is ready, heat your tortillas. I do this by holding them with tongs over the flame of my gas hob – its super quick and gives a delicious charred taste – but the oven will do just fine.


Fill the tortillas with the beans, salsa, guacamole, egg, cheese and radishes. Don’t forget the chilli sauce, coriander and a little yoghurt, if using.




Recipe Tips
Manchego is often made using animal rennet, but vegetarian versions are available.

