

Lobster and scallops with ginger chutney and sauté green vegetables



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Try making your own ginger chutney for this rather luxurious, fresh-tasting seafood dish.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients

2 cooked lobsters, meat picked out, shells reserved
4 scallops, shelled, cleaned and roe removed
1 tbsp rapeseed oil

For the ginger chutney

2½ tbsp rapeseed oil
1 tsp cumin seeds
2 tsp sesame seeds
200g/7oz root ginger, thinly sliced
1 green chilli, slit open
1 stick lemongrass, outside removed and finely chopped
4 lime leaves, roughly chopped
100g/3½oz palm sugar
100g/3½oz tamarind paste
pinch asafoetida
1 dried red chilli, crushed
½ tsp mustard seeds
5-6 curry leaves

For the vegetables

1 bunch kai lan (Chinese broccoli), or alternatively Tenderstem broccoli
1 tbsp rapeseed oil
1 bunch spring onions, cut on the angle




Method


For the ginger chutney, heat a large frying pan and add two teaspoons of the oil. Once hot add the cumin and sesame seeds. Once they start to pop add the ginger, chilli, lemongrass, lime leaves and cook for a couple of minutes.


Add the palm sugar, tamarind, asafoetida and a little water and cook for 30-40 minutes.


In a separate frying pan, add the rest of the oil and fry the dried chilli, mustard seeds and curry leaves for a couple of minutes. Set aside until ready to serve.


For the scallops and lobster, heat a frying pan and add a little oil. Once hot, add the scallops and cook for approximately one minute on each side. At the last minute add the lobster meat.


For the vegetables, place a saucepan of boiling water on the heat and add the kai lan and cook briefly. Then plunge it into ice-cold water and drain.


Heat a large frying pan and add the oil, once hot add the spring onions and kai lan and fry gently without colouring for a couple of minutes.


When ready to serve, preheat the grill to high. Put the cooked vegetables into the base of the lobster shells and add the scallop and lobster meat. Place the chutney on top and place under the grill for a couple of minutes and finish with the fried chilli, seeds and curry leaves.



