

Lobster mousse with warm champagne and chive sauce




Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 8


Recommended by
3 people



Decadent lobster mousse with a champagne sauce is definitely a recipe for a special occasion.






By The Hairy Bikers


From Hairy Bikers' Best of British






Ingredients
For the mousse

sunflower oil, for greasing
2 tsp lemon juice
5 sheets leaf gelatine, soaked in cold water
800g-900g/1lb 12oz-2lbs cooked lobster
50g/2oz cooked peeled prawns
150g/5oz mayonnaise
200ml/7fl oz double cream
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the sauce

25g/1oz butter
1 garlic clove, crushed
1 large banana shallot, finely chopped
small bunch fresh thyme
1 bay leaf
250ml/10fl oz champagne or sparkling wine
pinch caster sugar
200ml/7fl oz double cream
1 tbsp snipped fresh chives
salt and freshly ground white pepper

To serve

salmon caviar
chopped fresh chives




Method


For the mousse, grease a 600ml/1 pint 1fl oz metal mould. Put 100ml/3½fl oz cold water and the lemon juice in a saucepan and warm through for a few seconds. Remove the pan from the heat.


Remove the gelatine from the water and squeeze out any excess water. Place the gelatine into the saucepan. Stir until dissolved and set aside to cool slightly.


Cut the lobster in half lengthways and remove the claws. Remove the tail meat fand any other white meat from inside the lobster. Place a clean tea towel over the claws and crack with the end of a rolling pin or hammer. Remove the claw flesh.


Place all the lobster meat in a food processor. Add the prawns and mayonnaise to the food processor and blend until smooth. Slowly pour the gelatine liquid into the food processor with the motor running. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Whip the cream in a bowl until soft peaks form. Fold the lobster mixture into the cream and add salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Place the mixture into the mould, smooth the surface, cover with clingfilm and chill in the fridge overnight.


For the champagne sauce, melt the butter in a small saucepan and gently fry the shallot and garlic with the sprigs of thyme and bay leaf for five minutes, or until softened. Add the champagne and sugar. Bring to a simmer and cook for two minutes.


Stir in the cream, return to a simmer and cook for 2-3 minutes more or until the sauce reduces to the consistency of single cream, stirring regularly. Season to taste with salt and white pepper. Remove from the heat and pass the liquid through a sieve into a small saucepan.


Remove mousse from the fridge, remove the clingfilm and dip the base of the mousse mould in hot water for three seconds. Press around the edge of the mousse to break the seal and turn out onto a serving plate. Leave to stand for a few minutes.


Heat the champagne sauce over a low heat and bring to a gentle simmer. Remove from the heat and blend the sauce with a hand blender until very light and frothy. Gently stir in the chives, place the champagne sauce into a sauceboat.


Serve the lobster mousse in slices and garnish with salmon caviar and fresh chives. Pour champagne sauce over each plate and serve with melba toast.



