

Low-fat chicken tikka masala




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Making your own tikka masala sauce isn’t so tricky, so enjoy a lower calorie version of this favourite dish.

  Each serving provides 514 kcal, 24g protein, 11g carbohydrate (of which 3g sugars), 16g fat (of which 5g saturates), 3g fibre and 1.4g salt.





By Emily Angle


From Food: Truth or Scare






Ingredients
For the marinated chicken

500g/1lb 2oz chicken breasts, cut into bite-sized pieces
1 garlic clove, grated
75g/2½oz plain yoghurt
1 tbsp tikka spice powder

For the tikka masala sauce

1 chicken stock pot, made up with 100ml/3½fl oz boiling water
2 medium onions, sliced
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1 tsp grated fresh ginger
1½ tbsp tikka spice powder
1 x 400g tin chopped tomatoes
1 small bunch fresh coriander, chopped, plus extra for garnish
salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 tbsp plain yoghurt

To serve

300g/10½oz brown basmati rice, cooked according to packet instructions




Method


For the marinated chicken, mix together all the ingredients in a bowl, cover with cling film and put in the fridge aside to marinate while you make the sauce.


For the tikka masala sauce, bring the stock to a simmer in a saucepan. Add the sliced onions, garlic and ginger. Cut a square of baking paper or greaseproof paper large enough to cover the mixture in the pan. Push it right down to cover the onions and garlic closely, cover the pan with a lid and simmer very gently for 15 minutes.


Remove the paper. The onions should be translucent and soft. Add the tikka spice powder, the tinned tomatoes and the chopped coriander and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat slightly and simmer briskly for 20-30 minutes, until the sauce is thickened. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper then set aside to cool slightly.


Meanwhile, preheat the grill to its hottest setting. Cover a baking tray with foil, and then place the marinated chicken on the tray in a single layer. Grill the chicken for 15 minutes, or until the chicken pieces are cooked through. Give the chicken a turn halfway through cooking, to ensure it’s nicely browned all over.


Using a stick blender or food processor, blend the tikka masala sauce until smooth. Return to the heat and warm through, then add the plain yoghurt. (Don’t boil the sauce after you add the yoghurt or it will split.) Stir the cooked chicken pieces into the sauce and serve with brown basmati rice and a sprinkling of coriander to finish.




Recipe Tips
To find out more about type 2 diabetes and get information on how to reduce your risk of this mostly preventable disease, read our iWonder guide.

