

Mangalorean chicken sukka and curry leaf flatbreads



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



If you want to make a really special chicken curry then this is the recipe for you, top it off with some homemade spiced flatbreads for a real treat.






By Atul Kochhar


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the spice paste

30g/1oz coriander seeds
15g/½oz cumin seeds
5g black peppercorns
2-3 green cardamom pods
1cm/½in cinnamon stick
3-4 dry red chilies, seeds removed
20g/¾oz garlic (about 3-4 garlic cloves), chopped
5g curry leaves
75g/2¾oz onion (about 1 small onion), chopped
100ml/3½fl oz coconut milk

For the fennel and curry leaf flatbreads

250g/9oz white flour
salt, to taste
5g curry leaves, chopped
2 tsp crushed fennel seeds
50g/1¾oz clarified butter (ghee)

For the curry

50ml/2fl oz vegetable oil
2 tsp mustard seeds
10g curry leaves
150g/5½oz onion (about 1 large onion), sliced
½ tbsp chilli powder (optional)
600g/1lb 5oz chicken thigh, cut into 5cm/2in cubes
250g/9oz dessicated coconut
1 lemon, juice only
salt

For the garnish

4 tbsp mustard cress




Method


For the spice paste, toast the spices in a pan slowly over a low heat until they are fragrant. Then grind in a spice grinder, add the ground spices to a blender and blend to a fine paste with the garlic, curry leaves, onions and coconut milk.


For the flatbread, put the flour, salt, curry leaves and fennel seeds in a mixing bowl. Mix them gently until combined. Add water in batches until you have a firm dough (use as little water as possible). Roll the dough into 8 small balls, cover and set aside to rest for 30 minutes.


For the curry, heat the vegetable oil in a large pan. Add the mustard seeds, curry leaves and onions. Gently fry the onions until translucent, then add the red chilli powder followed by the spice paste. Cook for 15 minutes over a low heat. Add the chicken and cook for 10 minutes. Stir in the dessicated coconut. Season with salt and lemon juice.


When you are ready to cook the flatbread, dust a work surface with flour and roll the balls of dough out as thinly as possible with a rolling pin. Dry fry in a large pan for a few minutes on each side until cooked through. When cooked, brush both sides with clarified butter.


Serve the chicken curry with fennel and curry leaf flatbreads. Garnish with mustard cress and serve.



