

Mango and cardamom trifle with spiced rum baba and mango lime sorbet



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4



Equipment and preparation: You will need an ice cream maker.






By Shelina Permalloo


From MasterChef






Ingredients
For the mango jelly

65g/2½oz caster sugar
2 leaves gelatine (preferably catering grade bronze), soaked in cold water to soften
50ml/2fl oz sugar syrup (from above)
25g/1oz liquid glucose
250g/9oz Alfonso mango, blended to a purée
1 lemon, juice only

For the mango and lime sorbet

100g/3½oz caster sugar
2 limes, juice and zest
150g/5½oz Alfonso mango, blended to a purée

For the baba

75g/2½oz plain flour
10g/¼oz fresh yeast
25g/1oz milk powder
1 lemon, zest only
2 free-range egg yolks
55ml/2fl oz milk, warmed to 37C/98F
40g/1½oz butter

For the spiced syrup

200g/7oz caster sugar
200g/7oz light muscovado sugar
10 cardamom pods
1 cinnamon sticks
small pinch salt
1 tsp rosewater
1 lemon, zest only
1 orange, zest only
50ml/2fl oz dark, spiced Mauritian rum

For the cardamom caramel crème patisserie

175g/6½oz sugar
3 free-range egg yolks
20g/1oz white flour
20g/1oz cornflour
300ml/10fl oz milk
1 vanilla pod, split
125g/4½oz double cream
7 cardamom pods, seeds only, ground

For the rum chantilly cream

100ml/3½fl oz double cream
75ml/2½fl oz whipping cream
25g/1oz icing sugar
1 vanilla pod, split and seeds scraped out
2-3 tbsp of dark, spiced rum (preferably Mauritian)

For the rum caramel

3 tbsp sugar
25ml/1fl oz rum
Alphonso mango, diced, to serve




Method


For the mango jelly, heat the sugar and 125ml/4fl oz water in a pan, stirring, until completely dissolved and clear. Bring to the boil and simmer for two minutes.


Combine 50ml/2fl oz of this sugar syrup and the liquid glucose in a pan, then add the softened gelatine leaves, squeezed of excess water, and cook until completely dissolved.


Finally stir in the mango purée and lemon juice until well combined, then pass through a fine sieve. Pour into the serving glasses and place in the fridge to set.


For the mango and lime sorbet, heat the sugar with 100ml/3½fl oz water in a pan, stirring to dissolve the sugar.


Once it has dissolved, boil together for five minutes to make a syrup.


Add the lime juice and zest and the mango purée and stir to combine. Allow to cool, then chill before churning in an ice cream machine according to the manufacturers instructions until set. Then place in the freezer to firm up.


For the baba, combine the flour, yeast, milk powder and lemon zest in one bowl.


Then combine the egg yolks, warm milk and butter in another bowl and slowly stir this into the dry mixture.


Place in an oiled bowl and leave to rest for 30 minutes, covered with a damp cloth, or until doubled in size.


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


Knock back the batter by kneading it very quickly, before allowing it to rest for a further 15 minutes.


Divide the mixture into four cups of a muffin tin and cook in the oven for 15 minutes, or until they’re brown on top and don't wobble.


For the spiced syrup, combine all of the ingredients with 250ml/9fl oz water in a non-stick saucepan and heat, stirring, until the sugars dissolve.


Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for approximately 30 minutes to make a syrup.


Then soak the cooked babas in this syrup for about 30 minutes.


For the cardamom caramel crème patisserie, whisk 50g/2oz of the sugar, egg yolks, flour and cornflour together until well-combined and airy.


Heat the milk with the vanilla pod in a pan until just boiled, then set aside to infuse for 15 minutes. Stir a little of the hot milk into the egg mixture, add a little at a time, stirring constantly, until all the milk is incorporated.


Return to the saucepan and cook over a very gentle heat for five minutes. The flour and sugar should be completely absorbed. Then set aside to cool.


Gently heat the remaining sugar, cream and ground cardamom together in a non-stick saucepan for five minutes until you have caramel sauce. Pass through a sieve and set aside to cool.


Once both mixtures are cool, mix the caramel sauce through the crème patisserie until well combined. Set aside in a piping bag fitted with a plain nozzle.


For the rum chantilly cream, whisk the double cream, whipping cream, icing sugar and vanilla seeds together until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed. Stir through the rum, then place in a piping bag fitted with a large star nozzle, and set aside in the fridge.


For the rum caramel, heat 50ml/2fl oz water, the sugar and rum in a non-stick saucepan until the sugar dissolves, before bringing to the boil. Reduce the heat and simmer without stirring for two minutes until golden-brown. Allow to cool slightly before transferring the caramel to a squeezy bottle.


To assemble the trifle, take the serving dishes of mango jelly from the fridge and pipe over a layer of the crème patisserie, followed by a layer of chantilly cream, topped with a tablespoon of diced mango. Place the serving dish on one side of a rectangular plate.


Swirl the rum caramel in the centre of the plate and top this with the spiced rum baba. Finally place a quenelle of the sorbet on the other side of the plate.



