

Maple and balsamic glazed lamb chops with couscous




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
26 people



These flavour combos are not a reinvention of the wheel, but a simple seductive supper none-the-less. I have to do away with knives and forks for these little lamb chops and with messy fingers gnaw off the meat, right down to the bone.






By Lorraine Pascale


From Lorraine's Fast, Fresh and Easy Food






Ingredients
For the lamb

large handful fresh thyme sprigs, leaves picked
salt and pepper
8 lamb chops or cutlets
vegetable oil
1 bunch spring onions, trimmed and sliced
50g/2oz flaked almonds
handful fresh mint
1 pomegranate, seeds only

For the couscous

300g/10½oz couscous
200g/7oz feta
drizzle of extra virgin olive oil

For the balsamic glaze

25g/1oz butter
2 tbsp maple syrup
1 tbsp balsamic vinegar
Salt and freshly ground black pepper, to taste




Method


Sprinkle the thyme leaves over a large plate with a little salt and pepper, then squish the lamb chops or cutlets into the mix, turning them over to coat the both sides. This will give a lovely crust when cooked.


Place a large frying pan on a medium heat with a good glug of oil. Fry the lamb chops for about 3-4 minutes on the first side or until they are golden brown. Flip the lamb over and leave to cook for a further 3-4 minutes depending how you like them cooked.


Meanwhile, tip the couscous into a medium bowl, pour boiling water from a kettle to cover a little over the top, cover with cling film and leave aside for about five minutes.


For the glaze, put the butter, maple syrup and balsamic vinegar into a small saucepan over a high heat. Bring to the boil and then reduce to simmer, leaving it to bubble away for about three minutes, stirring from time to time. When the glaze is thickened and syrupy (a little thinner than golden syrup) remove from the heat and keep warm.


Check the couscous grains have absorbed all the water and are tender and then fluff it up with a fork. Crumble the feta cheese in, season with salt and pepper and add a good drizzle of extra virgin olive oil. Stir together and re-cover to keep warm.


Cut into the centre of one of the lamb chops or cutlets to check that they are cooked to your liking. When ready, remove them onto a plate to rest for a few minutes, covered with tin foil (this will make the chops more tender and juicy).


Add the spring onions and flaked almonds to the frying pan in which you cooked the lamb and fry on a medium heat for 1-2 minutes, stirring them a bit every now and then. Remove from the heat when the spring onions are wilted and the almonds golden brown.


Divide the couscous among four serving plates. Place two lamb chops on top of each plate and drizzle the glaze (and any resting juices) over. Scatter over the onion and almond mixture and tear over the mint leaves. Top with the pomegranate seeds and serve.



