

Maple-glazed gammon with fresh apricot and ginger chutney



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 10


Recommended by
6 people



So many people cook a gammon at Christmas time, but don’t think to cook it for any other occasion. I think it makes a lovely summer Sunday lunch served hot or cold with this spicy apricot chutney.






By Mary Berry


From Mary Berry Cooks






Ingredients

1 x 1.8-2kg/4-4lb 8oz gammon, boned
2 bay leaves
1 onion, halved
6 peppercorns

For the glaze

3 tbsp maple syrup
1 tsp English mustard powder
3 tbsp light muscovado sugar

For the apricot and ginger chutney

2 tbsp olive oil
2 onions, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, crushed
400g/14oz ready-to-eat dried apricots, diced
2 crisp eating apples, peeled, cored and diced
100g/3½oz light muscovado sugar
200ml/7fl oz cider vinegar
5 tbsp grated root ginger
2 red chillies, finely chopped
2 oranges, zest and juice
8 tbsp maple syrup




Method


Preheat the oven to 160C/325F/Gas 3 (140C fan).


Place the gammon in a deep saucepan that it just fits, add the bay leaves, onion and peppercorns. Add enough water to cover the gammon, then bring to the boil and cover with a lid. Transfer to the preheated oven and cook for about two hours, or until tender.


Increase the oven temperature to 220C/425F/Gas 7 (200C fan).


When the ham is cooked, remove it from the pan, and, using a sharp knife cut off the skin, leaving a layer of fat underneath. Place the gammon in a small roasting tin.


Mix the glaze ingredients together and pour over the layer of fat. Score the fat into diamond shapes and roast for about 20-25 minutes, or until golden-brown, basting halfway through the cooking time.


While the gammon is cooking you can make the chutney. Heat the oil in a medium sized pan and fry the onions over a low heat until really tender and transparent but not browned. Add all the remaining ingredients, bring to the boil, then simmer for about 10 minutes, or until the apricots have softened and everything is soft and pulpy.


Serve the chutney hot or cold. If cold, spoon into sterilised jars, label and seal the top.




Recipe Tips
The gammon can be cooked and glazed and will keep in the fridge for 2-3 days. The chutney will keep for up to a month in the fridge too. Mary prefers to use an unsmoked gammon as it is less salty. Add as little or as much chilli as you like.

