

Beef tartar, tomato jelly and sourdough crisps



Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4



Make sure you buy really good quality beef to make the most of this brilliant beef tartar recipe.






By Kenny Atkinson


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the spiced tomatoes

55g/2oz tomato ketchup
7gm Dijon mustard (about 1 teaspoon)
few drops Worcestershire sauce
6 drops Tabasco
50ml/2fl oz rapeseed oil
2 plum tomatoes, skinned, seeds removed and diced
large pinch finally chopped chives

For the beef tartar

175g/6oz aged beef fillet, finely chopped
1 small banana shallot, peeled and finely chopped
1 small gherkin, finely chopped
1 tsp mini capers, washed
pinch finely chopped flat leaf parsley
1 tsp of spiced tomatoes (see above)

For the tomato jelly

1kg/2lb 4oz plum tomatoes
20g/¾oz celery, roughly chopped
5g/⅛ garlic (about 1 clove), roughly chopped
10g/¼oz shallots, roughly chopped
sprig thyme
sprig tarragon
2 sprigs basil
pinch of salt
pinch of sugar
pinch of cayenne pepper
splash of Worcestershire sauce
4 drops Tabasco
10g gelatine

For the sourdough crisps

¼ loaf sourdough, finely sliced
olive oil, for drizzling

To serve

Oscietra caviar
micro-rocket cress
baby rocket
baby lemon balm




Method


For the tomato jelly, put all of the ingredients, except the gelatine, in a bowl and mix until well combined. Transfer the mixture to a blender and blitz to a pulp.


Pour the pulp into a muslin cloth. Tie the cloth and hang it over a bowl overnight. Measure 250ml/8½ of the water collected in the bowl and lightly warm through in a saucepan. Add in the geletine and stir.


Line a flat tray with cling film and pour in the water mixture. Place in the fridge to set.


For the spiced tomatoes, whisk together the ketchup, mustard, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco and rapeseed oil until emulsified. Put the plum tomatoes and chives in a bowl and bind with a little of the ketchup mixture, the remaining mixture can be used to make a sauce.


For the beef tartar, put the beef fillet in a bowl. Add the shallot, gherkin, capers and parsley. Add a little of the tomato sauce and season with salt and pepper.


For the sourdough crisps, preheat the oven to 150C/130C Fan/Gas 2.


Place the sourdough slices on a baking tray and drizzle with the oil. Season with salt and pepper. Bake until crisp, then remove and leave to cool. Meanwhile cut 6 circles from the set jelly.


To serve, place 3 circles of jelly on a plate and top with the beef tartare and spiced tomatoes. Place the remaining jelly circles on top and spoon over the caviar. Dress the plate with the sourdough crisps, leaves and a drizzle of olive oil.



