

Marinated griddled swordfish with roasted baby sweetcorn and chilli, orange and coriander salsa



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 1


Recommended by
2 people







By Lesley Waters


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the marinated swordfish

2 tbsp olive oil
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 lime, juice and finely grated zest
1 tbsp dark soy sauce
½ green chilli, deseeded and finely chopped
freshly ground black pepper
1 swordfish steak

For the roasted baby sweetcorn

70g/2½oz baby sweetcorn
1 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the salsa

1 orange, segmented
large handful fresh coriander leaves, roughly chopped
1 tbsp olive oil
½ green chilli, deseeded and finely chopped
salt and freshly ground black pepper
lime wedges, to garnish




Method


Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7.


For the marinated swordfish, place all the ingredients for the marinade, except the swordfish, into a shallow dish and mix well. Add the swordfish, turning to coat, and leave to marinate for ten minutes.


For the roasted baby sweetcorn, place the sweetcorn into a small ovenproof dish and drizzle with olive oil. Season well with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then roast in the oven for 6-8 minutes, or until tender and lightly charred.


For the salsa, place the orange segments and coriander into a bowl with the olive oil and green chilli. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper and stir well.


When the baby sweetcorn is cooked, fold into the salsa and set aside to allow the flavours to develop.


Heat a griddle pan until smoking hot. Drain the swordfish of any excess marinade and place onto the griddle pan, along with the lime wedges. Griddle the swordfish for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until cooked through but still very moist - this will depend on the thickness of the fillet. Remove the lime wedges once they're lightly charred.


To serve, spoon the baby sweetcorn with the chilli, orange and coriander salsa onto a serving plate and place the griddled swordfish on top. Garnish with the griddled lime wedges.



