

Ma's macadamia salad




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 6


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This is a great winter salad for freshening up your diet - crisp veg and crunchy nuts, lightly dressed with vinaigrette.

  This meal is low calorie and provides 321 kcal, 4g protein, 16g carbohydrate (of which 14g sugars), 27g fat (of which 4g saturates), 5g fibre and 0.3g salt per portion.






By Thomasina Miers






Ingredients

2 red onions, halved, cut into wedges
2 red peppers, seeded, cut into chunks
1-2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
120g/4½oz macadamia nuts
½ cucumber, peeled
3 spring onions, finely chopped
2 shallots, finely chopped
2 chicory heads, hearts removed, coarsely chopped
½ fennel bulb, chopped
1 tart green apple (such as Braeburn or Granny Smith) peeled, chopped
3 Baby Gem lettuces, chopped
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the French dressing

3 shallots, very finely sliced
1 tsp wholegrain mustard
1 tbsp brown sugar
2 tbsp white wine vinegar
large pinch Maldon sea salt
freshly ground black pepper
75ml/3fl oz extra virgin olive oil




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Toss the onion and red pepper in the olive oil and roast in the oven for 30 minutes.


Toast the macadamia nuts in a small roasting tin for 5-7 minutes in the same oven, until they are a lovely caramel colour. Remove the macadamias from the oven and chop coarsely, then set aside to cool while the onion and pepper finish cooking.


Slice the cucumber into quarters lengthways. Now slice down each length, cutting out the seeds (which are watery and would make your salad wishy-washy). Chop the remaining flesh.


For the French dressing, mix all the dressing ingredients except the olive oil in a glass jar with a screw-top lid. Shake well to dissolve the sugar and leave to stand for ten minutes (this takes the onion punch out of the shallot and softens its flavour). Add the oil and shake again.


To serve, mix all the salad ingredients in a bowl, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then toss in the French dressing.



