

Bangers and mash with onion gravy and peas



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
15 people



The classic sausage and mash served with homemade onion gravy and peas. Simple and sure to please all the family. This is designed to be a low cost recipe.






By Tom Kerridge


From Great British Budget Menu






Ingredients
For the sausages and onion gravy

8 sausages
2 onions, sliced
½ tsp dried mixed herbs
½ tsp English mustard
600ml/20fl oz stock (ideally beef, although chicken or vegetable is fine)
salt and black pepper
2 tsp softened butter
2 tsp plain flour

For the mash

900g/2lb potatoes, peeled and chopped into equally sized cubes
50g/1¾oz butter
100ml/3½fl oz milk

To serve

300g/10½oz frozen peas




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Place the sausages into a roasting tin and place in the preheated oven. Cook for 10 minutes then turn the sausages and cook for a further five minutes, or until they have a good colour on the outside.


Add the sliced onions to the tin. Mix the dried herbs, mustard and stock together and pour over the sausages and onions. Return the tin to the oven for a further 20 minutes, or until the sausages are cooked through and the onion gravy thickened. Season to taste with salt and pepper.


For the mash, boil the potatoes in a pan of boiling water until tender. Drain and mash.


Heat the butter and milk until the butter has melted. Add a pinch of salt and pepper then pour over the mashed potato and mix until smooth. Set aside until ready to serve.


Cook the peas in a saucepan of boiling water for 2-3 minutes, or steam them for 1-2 minutes. Drain thoroughly and set aside.


For the sausages and onion gravy, mix the softened butter and plain flour together to form a paste. Remove the sausages from the baking tray, set aside and cover to keep warm. Place the baking tray onto the hob, add the flour and butter mix and whisk until combined. Stir over a medium-high heat for 2-3 minutes, or until the gravy has thickened slightly. Add the sausages back to the tray and warm through for 1-2 minutes.


Serve the sausages, mash and peas with the onion gravy spooned over.




Recipe Tips
In May 2013 this recipe was costed at £2.80 at Asda, £3.27 at Tesco and £3.09 at Sainsbury’s.
  This recipe is designed to be made in conjunction with a
low-cost store-cupboard.

