

Mexican steak burrito




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
12 people



A fast, healthy alternative to heavy Mexican dishes, this burrito is mostly an assembly job of all your favourites.






By Angela Hartnett


From Take on the Takeaway






Ingredients
For the guacamole

2 small ripe avocados, peeled, stones removed
1 garlic clove, peeled and finely chopped
½ small onion, peeled and finely chopped
1 small red chilli, seeds removed, finely chopped
1 lime, juice only
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the tomato salsa

2 medium ripe tomatoes, chopped
½ onion, peeled and finely chopped
small handful fresh coriander, chopped

For the steak filling

2 tbsp vegetable oil (or 40g/1½oz lard)
1 small onion, peeled and finely chopped
350g/12oz rump steak, chopped
1 garlic clove, peeled and finely chopped
½ red or green chilli, seeds removed, finely chopped
dash Worcestershire sauce
dash Tabasco sauce
pinch cayenne pepper
small handful fresh coriander, chopped

To serve

2 ready-made soft flour tortillas, warmed briefly in a hot dry pan
1 Little Gem lettuce, finely sliced
100g/3½oz rice, cooked according to packet instructions and drained
75g/2½oz cheddar cheese, grated
100ml/3½fl oz soured cream




Method


For the guacamole, place the avocados in a bowl with the garlic, onion and chilli and mash together roughly with a fork.


Stir in the lime juice and season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Set aside.


For the tomato salsa, mix the tomatoes, onion and coriander in a bowl. Set aside.


For the steak filling, heat the oil or lard in a pan and fry the onion for 1-2 minutes until softened but not browned.


Add the steak pieces to the pan with the garlic and chilli and stir fry for one minute.


Add a pinch of cayenne pepper and a dash of Worcestershire sauce and Tabasco sauce and cook for another minute, or until cooked to your liking, then remove from the heat.


To assemble the burrito, place the warmed tortillas on serving plates and divide the steak between them. Top with salsa and lettuce and fold to enclose the filling.


Serve the burrito with rice, grated cheese, soured cream and a spoonful of the guacamole.



