

Mexican sweetcorn pancakes, poached eggs and salsa




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
7 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




A healthy breakfast doesn't need to taste boring - add zing to your morning with salsa and sweetcorn pancakes.






By James Tanner


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the sweetcorn pancakes

100g/3½oz plain flour
1 tsp baking powder
1 free-range egg
150ml/5fl oz whole milk
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 sweetcorn on the cob, kernels only
1 tbsp vegetable oil

For the tomato chilli salsa

3 tomatoes, skin and seeds removed, chopped
6 coriander sprigs, leaves only, chopped
1 green chilli, very finely chopped
pinch sugar
¼ small red onion, finely chopped
1 lime, juice only
pinch sea salt
freshly ground black pepper

For the poached eggs

1 tbsp white wine vinegar
4 free-range eggs




Method


For the sweetcorn pancakes, sieve the flour and baking powder into a mixing bowl, then whisk in the egg and half of the milk to form a thick batter with a consistency slightly thicker than double cream. Add more milk as necessary to loosen the mixture. Season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then stir in the sweetcorn.


Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium to high heat. Spoon half of the batter into the pan and fry for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until the pancake is golden-brown on both sides. Set the pancake aside on a warm plate and cover loosely with aluminium foil. Repeat with the remaining batter.


For the tomato chilli salsa, mix the tomatoes, coriander, chilli, sugar, finely chopped onion, lime juice and salt until well combined. Season to taste with freshly ground black pepper.


For the poached eggs, bring a pan of water to the boil, stir in the vinegar and turn down the heat so that the water is simmering. Add the eggs and poach for 3-4 minutes, or until cooked to your liking, then remove from the pan with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen paper.


To serve, place one of the sweetcorn pancakes onto each plate, arrange two of the poached eggs on top, and finish with a spoonful of the tomato chilli salsa.



