

Banoffee cheesecake with chocolate sauce




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
34 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Banoffee pie in cheesecake form is the ultimate twist on this indulgent pud.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the cheesecake

150g/6oz chocolate oat biscuits, crushed
75g/3oz butter
2 tbsp clear honey
4 bananas, peeled and cut into chunks
400g/14oz cream cheese
4 tbsp icing sugar
1 tbsp maple syrup
1 x 225g/8oz dulce de leche or canned caramel

For the chocolate sauce

40g/1½oz butter
175ml/7fl oz double cream
225g/8oz milk chocolate, roughly chopped




Method


For the cheesecake, place the crushed chocolate biscuits into a bowl. Add a third of the butter and all the honey to the crushed biscuits and mix everything together well with a wooden spoon.


Spoon the biscuit crumb mixture into a 23cm/9in springform cake tin and flatten with the back of a spoon.


Heat a frying pan until hot then add the remaining butter and the bananas and fry for 2-3 minutes, until golden-brown.


Remove the bananas from the pan and leave to one side to cool. Arrange the bananas on top of the biscuit base, reserving a few to serve.


Place the cream cheese and icing sugar into a bowl and whisk until smooth. Stir in the maple syrup and the dulce de leche or caramel.


Spoon the sweet cream cheese mixture into the cake tin on top of the bananas.


Place in the fridge and leave to set for at least 30 minutes, preferably overnight.


Meanwhile, for the chocolate sauce, place the butter and cream into a saucepan and bring to a simmer over a medium heat.


Add the chopped chocolate and stir to combine.


Turn the heat to low and keep the buttery chocolate on the hob until the chocolate has melted and the mixture is smooth and glossy.


To serve, remove the cheesecake from the fridge, remove the tin and place onto a serving plate. Top with the reserved fried bananas and a spoonful of chocolate sauce.



