

Minced pork meatloaf with soured cream (Faschierter Rahmbraten)




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
27 people



This very traditional Austrian dish is probably the moistest meatloaf we’ve ever tasted. It’s deeply savoury and really easy to make. We cooked it at a pumpkin farm in Austria, where we found out that pumpkin oil is one of the country’s main crops. How about that?






By The Hairy Bikers


From Hairy Bikers' Bakeation






Ingredients

1 tbsp sunflower oil
1 large onion, finely diced
1 garlic clove, crushed
500g/1lb 2oz pork mince, or a mixture of beef and pork mince
175g/6oz fresh white breadcrumbs
1 tbsp dried marjoram or 2 tbsp fresh marjoram leaves, chopped
1 tsp caraway seeds
1 tsp flaked sea salt
1 tsp coarsely ground black pepper
2 medium eggs, beaten
500ml/18fl oz beef stock (preferably fresh stock)
150ml/5fl oz/¼ pint soured cream
a few sprigs of fresh marjoram, to garnish (optional)




Method


Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5.


Heat the oil in a large frying pan and gently fry the onion for 5 minutes or until softened, stirring occasionally. Add the garlic and cook for 1 minute more, stirring constantly.


Tip the onion and garlic into a large bowl and add the mince, 150g/5½ oz of the breadcrumbs, the marjoram, caraway seeds, salt and pepper. Mix everything well with clean hands, then add the beaten eggs and mix again. Form the mixture into a rough ball.


Place the ball in the centre of a sturdy roasting tin and shape it into a long loaf, about 4cm/1½ in high. Sprinkle the reserved breadcrumbs on top and pat them lightly into the outside of the loaf. Pour 300ml/10fl oz/½ pint of the beef stock around the base of the meatloaf.


Bake in the centre of the oven for 20 minutes, then pour the remaining stock into the tin and return to the oven for 10 minutes until cooked through. Transfer the meatloaf carefully to a warmed serving platter and cover loosely with foil.


Place the roasting tin over a medium heat and simmer for a few minutes until the juices are well reduced – you should have about 100ml/3½fl oz of liquid in the tin. Stir in the soured cream and warm through gently, stirring constantly, then season to taste with salt and pepper.


Strain the sauce through a sieve into a small jug.


Garnish the meatloaf with some fresh marjoram sprigs, if you have some, and serve with the hot sauce.




Recipe Tips
To check the meatloaf is cooked right through, remove it from the oven and insert a metal skewer into the centre. Hold it there for a few seconds, then remove and lightly pinch the end. If the heat has penetrated through the meat and cooked it, the skewer should feel hot. Press the spot where the skewer was inserted and the juices should run clear. If there is any sign of pinkness,
  return the meatloaf to the oven and cook for a further 10 minutes before testing it again.

