

Minestrone with butternut squash ‘noodles’




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This gluten-free soup uses spaghetti-like strands of butternut squash instead of pasta for a healthy take on a classic.

  Equipment and preparation: For this recipe, you will need a julienne peeler.

  This meal provides 348 kcal, 18g protein, 45g carbohydrate (of which 18g sugars), 11g fat (of which 4g saturates), 16g fibre and 2.5g salt per portion.






By Hemsley + Hemsley






Ingredients

1 tbsp ghee
2 large onions, diced
1 celery stick, trimmed, diced
1 bay leaf
1 butternut squash, trimmed, peeled, deseeded
3 garlic cloves, diced
1 large carrot, diced
½ tsp dried oregano
½ tsp dried basil
¼ tsp chilli flakes or chopped fresh chilli
800ml/1¾ pints vegetable stock
400g tin chopped tomatoes (or 6 large fresh tomatoes, deseeded and chopped)
2 x 400g tins cooked chickpeas, drained, rinsed
200g/7oz cavolo nero, tough stalks removed, leaves finely sliced
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

large handful grated parmesan (or vegetarian alternative)
drizzle extra virgin olive oil




Method


Heat the ghee in a large, lidded saucepan over a low heat. Add the onion, celery and bay leaf and fry for 6-8 minutes, or until softened.


Meanwhile, peel the butternut squash into spaghetti-like strands using a julienne peeler


Add the garlic, carrot, oregano, basil, chilli flakes and stock to the pan. Bring just to the boil, then reduce the heat immediately and simmer, covered, for 6-8 minutes.


Add the tomatoes,chickpeas and squash strands and continue to simmer for 6-8 minutes, stirring occasionally.


Stir in the cavolo nero and cook for 4-5 minutes, or until tender. Season with salt and pepper.


Ladle the soup into serving bowls, then sprinkle with grated parmesan. Drizzle over a little extra virgin olive oil and serve.




Recipe Tips
Tip 1: If you don’t have a julienne peeler, use a normal vegetable peeler to slice the courgette lengthways into very wide ribbons, then julienne these using a knife.

  Tip 2: If using dried chickpeas, you will need 200g/7oz.

