

Mini lemon and thyme drizzle cakes



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes 12 mini cakes


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Miniature versions of the classic lemon drizzle cake are filled with homemade lemon curd and topped with a lemon thyme syrup and candied lemon slices.

  Equipment and preparation: for this recipe you will need a 12-hole muffin tin (as straight sided as possible), two piping bags and a small round nozzle.






By Martha Collison


From The Great British Bake Off






Ingredients
For the lemon curd

2 free-range eggs
2 large unwaxed lemons, zest and juice
110g/4oz unsalted butter
175g/6oz caster sugar
1 tsp cornflour

For the sponge

cake release spray or butter, for greasing
175g/6oz baking spread
175g/6oz caster sugar
3 medium free-range eggs
175g/6oz plain flour
pinch salt
1½ tsp baking powder
1 tbsp finely chopped lemon thyme leaves
½ lemon, zest only

For the syrup

100g/3½oz caster sugar
few sprigs fresh lemon thyme, leaves picked
1½ lemons, zest and juice only

For the topping

35g/1¼oz caster sugar
1 unwaxed lemon, zest only
12 candied lemon slices
thyme leaves, for decoration

For the filling

50g/1¾oz unsalted butter, softened
50g/1¾oz icing sugar
100g/3½oz mascarpone cheese
100ml/3½fl oz double cream, whipped




Method


For the lemon curd, whisk the eggs together in a small saucepan. Add the lemon zest, lemon juice, butter, sugar and cornflour. Stir over a low heat until the curd thickens. Pour into a bowl and then chill in the fridge.


For the sponge, preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Spray the muffin tin with cake release spray or grease with butter. Line the bottom of the trays with small circles of baking parchment.


Put the baking spread and sugar in a freestanding mixer and cream together until smooth and pale. Mix in the eggs, then fold in the flour, salt, baking powder, thyme and lemon zest.


Fill each hole of the muffin tin until three-quarters full (it’s easiest to use an ice cream scoop, if you have one). Bake for 15-20 minutes, or until golden-brown and springy to the touch.


Allow the cakes to cool in the tins, then remove and place on wire racks to cool completely.


For the syrup, heat the caster sugar, thyme, lemon zest and juice in a small saucepan until the sugar is dissolved and a syrup forms.


Using a fork or skewer, pierce the sponges then use a pastry brush to brush the warm syrup over the cakes.


For the topping, mix any remaining syrup with the sugar and lemon zest. Drizzle it over the tops of the mini cakes to create the classic lemon drizzle topping.


For the filling, use an electric whisk to cream the butter and sugar together. Stir in the mascarpone and then fold in the whipped cream. Spoon the filling into a piping fitted with a small round nozzle.


Slice the cakes in half and pipe small rounds on top of the bottom half of each cake. Spread the lemon curd on the top halves and then place on top of the creamed bases.


Top with the candied lemon slices and a few thyme leaves and arrange on a serving plate or cake stand.




Recipe Tips
You can make your own candied lemon, if you have the time. Use a zester to peel long strips of lemon zest and place in a saucepan with a thin, even covering of sugar and a little water.
  Boil for 10 minutes or until the zest is translucent, then drain and leave to dry out on a baking tray covered in baking parchment.

