

Mini three-way biscuits




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 20 of each variety


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These are my favourite biscuits to make with my grandchildren – three classic biscuit flavours from just one batch of dough.






By Mary Berry


From Mary Berry's Absolute Favourites






Ingredients
For the biscuit dough

175g/6oz butter, softened
75g/2½oz caster sugar
175g/6oz plain flour, plus extra for dusting
75g/2½oz semolina

For the chocolate chip biscuits

50g/1¾oz milk or plain chocolate chips

For the lemon biscuits

1 lemon, finely grated zest only
1–2 tbsp demerara sugar

For the almond biscuits

1 tsp almond extract
40g/1½oz flaked almonds




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/160C Fan/Gas 4. Line three baking trays with baking paper.


To make the biscuit dough, measure the butter, sugar, flour and semolina into the bowl of an electric food mixer and mix until a soft dough is formed, taking care not to over-beat. Alternatively, add the butter and sugar to a mixing bowl and beat with a wooden spoon until soft and creamy, then stir in the flour and semolina. Divide the dough evenly into three and dust your work surface with flour before kneading each batch.


For the chocolate chip biscuits, knead the chocolate chips into one portion of dough, shape into 20 balls and arrange, spaced well apart, on one of the baking trays. Press down with the back of a fork into discs about 5cm/2in in diameter and bake in the oven for 10–12 minutes, or until golden-brown.


For the lemon biscuits, knead the lemon zest into the second portion of dough. Roll into a long sausage shape (about 20cm/8in long) and roll in the demerara sugar. Wrap in cling film and leave in the freezer for about 30 minutes, or until firm and nearly frozen. Slice into 20 even rounds, each about 1cm/½in thick. Arrange on a baking tray, spaced well apart, and bake for about 10 minutes, or until pale golden-brown.


For the almond biscuits, knead the almond extract into the remaining portion of dough, along with most of the flaked almonds. Shape into 20 small balls and arrange on the third baking tray, spaced apart. Place a few almonds on top of each ball of dough and press flat with the back of a fork into discs about 5cm/2in in diameter. Bake for about 10 minutes, or until golden-brown.




Recipe Tips
By freezing the roll of lemon biscuit dough first, you can create perfect round discs for the biscuits, whereas the others are a little more rustically rough around the edges!

  The different types can be made and cut out at the same time, if you prefer, but each tray of biscuits should be baked separately to ensure even cooking. Once one batch is baked, transfer them to a wire rack to cool while you cook the next.

  Prepare ahead: These biscuits can be stored in an airtight container for 3–4 days. The dough can be stored in the fridge for 1–2 days before flavouring and shaping.

