

Mini black forest gâteaux



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 4 small cakes


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the sponges

175g/6oz unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing
175g/6oz caster sugar
6 free-range eggs, separated
125g/4oz self-raising flour
75g/2½ cocoa powder
1 tsp instant coffee powder (or 1 tsp coffee granules dissolved in 1 tsp hot water)

For the filling

50ml/2fl oz blackcurrant liqueur
50g/2oz black cherry jam
400ml/14fl oz whipping cream
50g/2oz caster sugar
25g/1oz icing sugar
1 vanilla pod, seeds scraped out
400g/14oz black cherries in syrup, drained
50g/2oz dark chocolate (at least 70 per cent cocoa solids), grated




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/360F/Gas 4.


For the sponges, in a bowl beat the butter and sugar together until pale and fluffy.


Add the egg yolks and mix well.


In a separate bowl, whisk the egg whites until stiff peaks form when the whisk is removed.


Fold the whisked egg whites into the butter and egg yolk mixture.


Sift the flour and cocoa powder into the mixture.


Add the instant coffee and fold the mixture until just combined.


Divide the sponge mixture equally between four greased and lined 7.5cm/3in spring-form cake tins.


Place into the oven and bake for 20-25 minutes. Test the cakes with a metal skewer pushed into the centre of each cake. If the cakes are cooked through the skewer will come out clean.


Remove the cakes from the oven and allow to cool. Slice each in half across the centre to create two sponge circles from each cake.


Drizzle one half of each cake with the blackcurrant liqueur, then spread the jam over the same half.


Meanwhile whip the cream, caster sugar, icing sugar and vanilla seeds together in a mixing bowl until soft peaks form when the whisk is removed, then fold in half of the cherries.


Spread a little of the vanilla cream over the jam-covered half of each cake, then place the other half on top.


Top each cake with more vanilla cream and garnish with the remaining cherries.


Sprinkle each cake with grated chocolate and serve.



