

Mint choc chip whoopie pies




Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 18 whoopie pies


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Fun chocolate biscuits sandwiched with homemade ice cream - a mint choc twist on the usual whoopie pie.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the mint choc chip ice-cream

200ml/7fl oz double cream
200g/7oz sweetened condensed milk
½ tsp peppermint oil
50g/2oz dark chocolate

For the biscuits

125g/4½oz butter
150g/5½oz chocolate, minimum 70% cocoa solids
100g/3½oz chocolate, minimum 70% cocoa solids, for melting (optional)
225g/8oz sugar
3 free-range eggs
1 tsp vanilla extract
250g/9oz flour
30g/1¼oz cocoa powder
½ tsp baking powder

To serve

cocoa powder
icing sugar




Method


Line the cups of a muffin tin with cling film and place in the freezer.


For the mint choc chip ice-cream, beat the double cream until very soft peaks form when you remove the whisk, then whisk in the condensed milk until smooth. Fold in the peppermint oil and taste (add more if necessary).


Use a vegetable peeler to shave thin bits of chocolate into the cream mix, then fold them in.


Scoop the mix into the prepared muffin tin cups. Each cup will be the deep filling for a single whoopie pie. Smooth the tops and freeze overnight.


For the biscuits, preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Line a baking tray with greaseproof paper.


Melt the butter and chocolate in a bowl set over a pan of simmering water. (Do not let the base of the bowl touch the water.)


In a separate bowl whisk together the sugar, eggs and vanilla. Then fold in the chocolate mixture.


In a separate bowl, sift the flour, cocoa and baking powder together, then fold into the chocolate and egg mixture, until thoroughly combined.


Place tablespoonfuls of the mixture onto the baking tray (the mixture should make 36 biscuits) and bake in the oven for 6-8 minutes.


Remove from the oven and set aside to cool on a rack.


Melt the extra chocolate, if using, and pour this over the cookies, then set aside to cool.


When ready to serve, use the clingfilm to turn out the ice cream from the muffin tin and sandwich a peice of ice cream between two whoopie biscuits.


Dust with cocoa powder and icing sugar and serve immediately.



