

Morroccan sea bass with herby tabbouleh



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
3 people



Bring the flavours of Morocco to your table with this mouthwatering sea bass recipe. Serve with a herby tabbouleh for a meal that will tickle your tastebuds.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the sea bass

2 whole small sea bass, gutted
4 tbsp harissa paste
1 lemon, zest and juice only
2 garlic cloves, sliced
1 tsp ground cumin
pinch ground cinnamon
pinch grated fresh nutmeg
2 tbsp olive oil, plus extra for greasing
½ bunch flatleaf parsley
4 plum tomatoes, cut into 1cm/½in slices

For the herby tabbouleh

140g/5oz bulgur wheat
500ml/18fl oz chicken stock, warmed
1 red onion, finely chopped
½ bunch flatleaf parsley, roughly chopped
½ bunch mint, roughly chopped
½ bunch coriander, roughly chopped
100g/3½oz dried apricots, diced
1 pomegranate, seeds removed
100g/3½oz sultanas, left whole
100g/3½oz pistachio nuts, chopped
1 lemon, juice only
4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil




Method


Preheat the oven to 190C/170C Fan/Gas 5.


Trim the sea bass by removing the fins with scissors and scoring the flesh in a crisscross pattern.


To make the paste for the sea bass, put all of the ingredients, except the parsley and tomatoes, in a bowl and mix. Rub the paste all over the fish and stuff the cavity of the fish with the parsley.


Take 2 large pieces of aluminium foil big enough to wrap each fish with room to spare. Put an equally-sized piece of greaseproof paper on top of each piece of foil, then lightly grease the paper with oil. Divide the tomatoes between the greaseproof paper and put the fish on top. Wrap the greaseproof paper and aluminium foil around the fish like a Cornish pasty, using the foil to seal it. Bake in the oven for 20-25 minutes until cooked through.


To make the tabbouleh, put the bulgur wheat in a saucepan and cover with the chicken stock. Simmer for 15-20 minutes, or until cooked. Drain and leave to cool.


Put the cooled bulgur and the remaining tabbouleh ingredients in a large bowl and mix thoroughly.


Put the tabblouah on a large serving plate, top with the sea bass and serve.



