

Mozzarella-stuffed lamb chops with artichoke ragout



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person







By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the lamb

12 French-trimmed lamb cutlets
1 ball mozzarella, cut into 12 strips
4 slices prosciutto or Parma ham, each cut into 3 strips
12 fresh basil leaves
75g/3oz plain flour
4 free-range eggs, lightly beaten
110g/4oz dried breadcrumbs
3 tbsp olive oil
50g/2oz rocket leaves
50g/2oz parmesan, peeled into shavings
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
½ lemon, juice only

For the artichoke ragout

3 tbsp olive oil
2 shallots, finely diced
2 garlic cloves, finely diced
200g/7oz baby artichokes, trimmed, thinly sliced
125ml/4½fl oz white wine
75ml/3fl oz chicken stock
200g/7oz chopped tomatoes
150g/5oz green beans, cut into 2cm/¾in pieces
1 courgette, cut into 1cm/½in cubes
3 tbsp chopped fresh basil leaves




Method


For the lamb, preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Cut a large pouch in each of the lamb cutlets.


Wrap a mozzarella strip and basil leaf with a piece of prosciutto. Repeat with the remaining mozzarella, basil and prosciutto.


Stuff each lamb cutlet with the prosciutto-wrapped mozzarella and press down the edges of the cutlet so the pouch is sealed.


Sprinkle the flour onto a plate and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Beat the eggs in a bowl and sprinkle the breadcrumbs onto a plate.


Dredge each cutlet in the flour, dip into the eggs and coat in the breadcrumbs.


Heat a frying pan until hot, add the olive oil and fry the lamb cutlets for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until golden-brown.


Transfer to a roasting tray and roast in the oven for 5-8 minutes.


Place the rocket and parmesan into a bowl and toss with the extra virgin olive oil and lemon juice. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


For the artichoke ragout, heat a lidded frying pan until hot. Add the olive oil, shallots and garlic and fry gently for 1-2 minutes. Add the artichokes and fry for one minute then add the white wine and bring to a simmer.


Cover with a lid and cook for 2-3 minutes, then remove the lid, add the chicken stock, tomatoes and green beans and cook for another 2-3 minutes.


Add the courgettes and cook for another 2-3 minutes, or until all the vegetables are tender. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then stir in the basil.


To serve, spoon the ragout onto serving plates and top with some lamb cutlets. Pile the salad alongside.



