

Multi-seeded wheat-free bread




Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Makes 1 loaf


Recommended by
10 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




It’s always handy to have a decent wheat-free loaf up your sleeve, and this one made with a variety of seeds is a winner. Try it with butter curls and Cheddar.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need a 900g/2lb loaf tin and a free-standing food mixer fixed with the balloon whisk attachment.






By Christine Wallace


From The Great British Bake Off






Ingredients

450g/1lb wheat-free flour (a blend of potato flour, rice flour, tapioca flour and xanthan gum)
1 tsp salt
2 tbsp caster sugar
2 tsp fast-action yeast
310ml/10fl oz full-fat milk
1 tsp cider vinegar
6 tbsp vegetable oil, plus extra for greasing
2 free-range eggs, plus 1 free-range egg beaten for egg wash
4 tbsp mixed seeds, such as pumpkin, sesame and sunflower seeds, plus extra for finishing
115g/4oz salted butter, shaped into curls
115g/4oz Cheddar cheese




Method


Grease and line a 900g/2lb loaf tin.


Place the flour into a free-standing food mixer fixed with the balloon whisk attachment.


Add the salt, sugar and yeast in three separate piles.


Mix together the milk, vinegar, oil, and two eggs in a jug.


Pour the liquid into the mixing bowl and add the seeds.


Switch on the mixer and whisk the ingredients for about 3-4 minutes.


Put the batter into the prepared tin, cover with oiled cling film and leave to prove for about one hour, or until doubled in size.


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Bake for about 35-45 minutes. Cover with foil after ten minutes.


About ten minutes before the end of the cooking time, brush the loaf with egg wash (beaten egg) and sprinkle over the seeds.


Remove from the oven, leave to cool on a wire rack and serve in slices with the butter curls and cheese.




Recipe Tips
If you can’t get hold of wheat-free flour containing xanthan gum, add two teaspoons of xanthan gum to the flour and measure out two teaspoons less than the specified amount.

