

Mushroom and mozzarella burger with relish




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
10 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Large flat mushrooms filled with melty mozzarella make the perfect vegetarian burger, slathered in homemade tomato relish. Irresistible. This is designed to be a low cost recipe.






By Tom Aikens


From Great British Budget Menu






Ingredients
For the relish

1 tbsp olive oil
1 onion, finely diced
salt and pepper
1 garlic clove, crushed
200g/7oz tinned tomatoes
1 tbsp white wine vinegar

For the onions

25g/1oz butter
2 onions, finely sliced

For the rest of the burger

4 large flat mushrooms, stalk trimmed so it doesn’t come above the edge of the mushroom
1 tbsp olive oil
1 ball mozzarella
4 burger buns, sliced in half




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


For the relish, heat a small frying pan over a medium heat and add the olive oil. Fry the onion and a pinch of salt in the oil for 4-5 minutes, or until the onion is soft. Add the garlic and cook for two minutes, then stir in the tomatoes and the vinegar. Gently simmer for five minutes, or until the mixture has thickened to a relish consistency. Taste and adjust the seasoning as necessary. Leave to cool.


For the onions, heat a frying pan over a medium heat and melt the butter in the pan. Add the sliced onion and a pinch of salt. Turn down the heat and leave the onions, stirring now and again, to cook for 25-30 minutes, or until dark golden in colour and completely collapsed.


For the rest of the burger, place the mushrooms with the stalk side facing up onto an oven tray, drizzle with the oil and season with salt and pepper. Bake in the oven for 10 minutes, or until beginning to soften. Meanwhile slice the mozzarella ball into four equal slices. After the mushrooms have cooked for 10 minutes, remove from the oven and place a slice of mozzarella into each of the mushrooms on top of the stalk. Put back into the oven for 5-7 minutes to melt the mozzarella.


To assemble, lightly toast the cut side of the burger buns. Spread with a little relish and then place the mushrooms on top of the bottom burger bun. Divide the onions among the burgers and add any remaining relish on top. Finish by sandwiching each burger with the remaining halves.




Recipe Tips
In May 2013 this recipe was costed at £3.96 at Asda, £3.37 at Tesco and £3.11 at Sainsbury’s.
  This recipe is designed to be made in conjunction with a
low-cost store-cupboard.

