

Mushroom and tarragon pithivier




Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Pithiviers are perfect for a party, so get ready to wow your guests with these delicious vegetarian pasties.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the filling

100g/3½oz unsalted butter
450g/1lb mushrooms, sliced
1 onion, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, chopped
100g/3½oz ricotta cheese
200g/7oz mashed potato
pinch cayenne pepper
1 tbsp chopped fresh tarragon
1 lemon, juice only

For the pastry

500g/1lb 2oz puff pastry
1 free-range egg, beaten

For the chutney

olive oil, for frying
1 red onion, sliced
1 red chilli, sliced
100g/3½oz caster sugar
100ml/3½fl oz red wine vinegar
salt and freshly ground black pepper
6 gherkins, chopped




Method


Heat the butter in a heavy-based frying pan over a medium heat. Add the mushroom, onion and garlic and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until softened. Remove from the heat and drain the mixture in a colander.


Place half of the mushroom mixture in a food processor and pulse until finely chopped, but not a purée. Spoon into a large bowl and fold in the ricotta, mashed potato, cayenne pepper, tarragon and lemon juice. Chill in the fridge for two hours, or overnight preferably.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Roll the puff pastry out to a 3mm/⅛in thickness and using a 15cm/6in cutter, cut out eight circles.


Place four circles of puff pastry onto a baking tray and spoon some of the chilled mushroom mixture into the centre of each circle leaving a 2.5cm/1in border.


Cover each pastry circle with the remaining pastry circles and crimp the edges with a fork. Brush all over with the beaten egg. Bake in the oven for 20 minutes.


Meanwhile for the chutney, heat some oil in a frying pan over a medium heat and fry the onion and chilli for 4-5 minutes, or until softened.


Add the sugar and vinegar and bring to boil for 10-15 minutes. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then fold in the gherkins


Serve the pastries with the chutney.



