

Mushroom biryani



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Spice up a vegetarian dinner party with this delicious recipe for mushroom biryani.

  Equipment and preparation: You’ll need 4 x 10cm/4in chef’s rings greased with butter.






By Simon Rimmer


From Something for the Weekend






Ingredients
For the omelettes

3 free-range eggs
1 tbsp chopped fresh coriander
knob of butter

For the marinade

vegetable oil, to fry
500g/1lb 2oz brown cap and button mushrooms
2 garlic cloves, crushed
5cm/2in piece fresh ginger, grated
pinch cayenne pepper
20g/¾oz ground paprika
20g/¾oz ground cumin
salt, to taste
1 litre/1¾ pints natural yoghurt

For the paste

2 red chillies
2 garlic cloves, crushed
5cm/2in piece fresh ginger, grated
pinch turmeric
15g/½oz garam masala
pinch salt

For the rice

50ml/2fl oz vegetable oil
½ onion, sliced
250g/9oz basmati rice, washed, soaked in water for 30 minutes
300ml/10½fl oz vegetable stock
1 tbsp rosewater
handful chopped fresh mint
1 lemon, juice only
4 bay leaves

To serve

1 lime, juice only
200ml/7fl oz medium curry sauce, warmed




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.


For the omelette, whisk the eggs in a bowl with the chopped coriander. Melt the butter in a saucepan and fry the eggs until golden-brown on each side. Remove the omelette from the frying pan and roll it up into a cigar shape. Slice thinly and set aside.


In a separate pan, heat a dash of oil and fry the mushrooms for 2-3 minutes or until golden-brown. Meanwhile, combine the marinade ingredients in a bowl. Add the cooked mushrooms to the bowl and set aside.


For the paste, place the chillies, garlic, ginger, turmeric, garam masala and salt in a food processor and blend until smooth. Set aside.


For the rice, heat the vegetable oil in a heavy-based frying pan and gently fry the onions until soft. Add the paste and cook for five minutes.


Stir the rice into the onion mixture and fry for three minutes. Add just enough stock to cover the rice. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper and cook for 20 minutes. (Add additional stock if the rice become too dry).


Add one tablespoon of rosewater and mix until well combined. Drain the rice and add the chopped fresh mint and lemon juice. Season with salt and keep warm.


Place the chefs' rings onto a baking tray. Put a bay leaf in the middle of each ring and add a layer of rice. Place a layer of mushrooms on top and finish with a final layer of rice. Cover the ring with aluminium foil and cook in the oven for 10 minutes.


Once cooked, squeeze some lime juice over the rice. Cover with the omelette and drizzle a little of the warmed curry sauce.



