

Rogan josh




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
54 people



Take on the takeaway with Anjum Anand's recipe for the ultimate lamb rogan josh.






By Anjum Anand


From Indian Food Made Easy






Ingredients

5 tbsp vegetable oil
7 black peppercorns, left whole
3 black cardamom pods, left whole
5 green cardamom pods, left whole
4 cloves, left whole
1 cinnamon stick
1 piece of mace
1 onion, finely chopped
750g/1½lb lamb or mutton, cut into pieces
6 garlic cloves, peeled, left whole
2cm/¾in piece ginger, peeled and cut in half
2 tsp ground coriander
2 tsp ground cumin
½ tsp red chilli powder
2 tsp ground fennel seeds
1½ tsp garam masala
salt, to taste
2 tomatoes, blended to a pulp in a food processor
3 tbsp plain yoghurt, stirred
handful chopped fresh coriander, leaves and stalks




Method


Heat the oil in a large pan over a medium heat. Add the black peppercorns, black and green cardamom pods, cloves, cinnamon and mace and fry for 1-2 minutes, or until the spices are sizzling and fragrant.


Add the chopped onion and fry for 8-10 minutes, stirring regularly, until golden-brown.


Add the lamb pieces and fry for 3-4 minutes, stirring continually, until golden-brown all over.


Meanwhile, in a food processor, blend the garlic cloves and ginger with one tablespoon of water to a fine paste.


Add the garlic and ginger paste to the lamb mixture, stir well to combine, then reduce the heat and continue to cook for 3-4 minutes, stirring regularly.


Stir in the powdered coriander, cumin, red chilli powder, fennel seeds, garam masala, salt, tomato pulp and yoghurt, cover the pan with a lid, then reduce the heat to a low heat and simmer for 10-12 minutes, or until the sauce has almost completely dried out.


Add 2-3 tablespoons of boiling water to the sauce, stir well and simmer for a further 7-8 minutes, stirring continually and adding splashes of water as necessary, until the volume of liquid has reduced and the sauce has thickened.


Add enough boiling water to almost cover the lamb, bring the mixture to the boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer and simmer or 8-10 minutes, or until the lamb is cooked through.


Stir in the chopped coriander just before serving.



