

Nasi goreng (Indonesian-style fried rice)



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
5 people



Make this spicy rice dish with chicken breasts and prawns by the Hairy Bikers for a satisfying supper for two.






By The Hairy Bikers


From The Hairy Bikers' Cook Off






Ingredients
For the spice paste

2 garlic cloves, peeled
pinch nutmeg
¼ tsp freshly ground black pepper
½ tsp ground turmeric
2 shallots, peeled
25g/1oz unsalted peanuts
1 tsp salt
3 birds'-eye chillies, seeds removed
1 tbsp palm sugar
1-2 tbsp vegetable oil, or more if necessary

For the stir-fry

2 tbsp vegetable or groundnut oil, plus extra for frying the eggs
2 chicken breasts, skin removed, cut into thin strips
200g/7oz prawns, heads and shells removed and de-veined
110g/4oz fine green beans, trimmed and sliced into 1cm/½in pieces
4 spring onions, sliced
275g/10oz cooked long-grain rice (this must be cold)
splash light soy sauce
splash ketjap manis (Indonesian soy sauce)
4 free-range eggs

For the garnish

½ cucumber, peeled, seeds removed, finely diced
1 tbsp roughly chopped coriander
50g/2oz peanuts
1 lime, cut into wedges
handful crispy fried shallots
Asian-style chilli oil, to serve




Method


For the spice paste, blend all of the spice paste ingredients together in a food processor. Add enough oil to bring the mixture together as a loose paste. Set aside.


For the stir-fry, heat the oil in a wok over a high heat until shimmering hot, then add the chicken and fry for a minute or so, then add the spice paste and prawns and stir well, cooking for a good 4-5 minutes.


Add the beans and spring onions and fry for another minute, keeping everything moving.


Add the cooked rice and stir until it's all been incorporated - you can add a few tablespoons of water at this point if it becomes a little dry and starts to stick. Season with soy sauce and ketjap manis, to taste.


Heat a little of the oil in a large frying pan over a medium heat and fry the eggs until crisp at the edges and cooked to your liking.


To serve, divide the stir-fry between two bowls, place two eggs on top and sprinkle over the garnish ingredients. Serve with the chilli oil on the side, for drizzling.



