

New potato and chorizo tortilla



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4-6


Recommended by
3 people



Many countries have their own version of an open omelette. The Italians have frittata, the Spanish tortilla. In France it is Spanish omelette. Traditionally it wouldn’t be new season potatoes used in this dish – it would be bigger main crop potatoes – but I wanted to celebrate the first of the early potatoes and they work surprisingly well.






By Raymond Blanc


From Kew on a Plate






Ingredients

3 tbsp olive oil
400g/14oz Jersey Royal potatoes, quartered
1 onion, diced
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
2 bay leaves
1 thyme sprig
1 rosemary sprig
pinch Espelette pepper or smoked paprika
pinch sea salt
120g/4½oz cooking chorizo, cut into small dice
15g/½oz flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped
80g/3oz spinach, chopped
8 free-range eggs, beaten




Method


Preheat the oven to 170C/150C Fan/Gas 3½.


Heat the oil a medium sauté pan or frying pan with a lid over a medium heat. Gently fry the potatoes, onion, garlic, bay leaves, thyme, rosemary, Espelette pepper and salt for 13–15 minutes. Stir regularly to avoid any colouring.


Add the chorizo and fry for 5 minutes with the lid on so the flavours mingle. Add the parsley and spinach and stir for 30 seconds. Remove from the heat, add the eggs and stir until evenly mixed.


Pour the egg mixture into a 20cm/8in non-stick, ovenproof frying pan and place in the oven for 15 minutes, until cooked. Leave to rest for 5 minutes before turning out on to a board or a large serving dish.


Cut the omelette into 4–6 wedge-shaped slices using a serrated knife and serve warm.




Recipe Tips
As the season goes on, you could substitute the Jersey Royals for Belle de Fontenay and other different varieties, such as Agria: you just don’t want a potato that is too floury as it will break up.

  This dish offers hundreds of opportunities for interpretation using different vegetables and herbs – be as creative as you like.

