

Turbot with new potatoes and a Champagne sauce



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4



Add a touch of luxury to your supper with buttery turbot and a cheeky Champagne sauce.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the new potatoes, beans and peas

150g/5½oz new potatoes, cut into quarters
150g/5½oz broccoli, cut into small florets
8 asparagus spears, trimmed
100g/3½oz fresh broad beans, podded
100g/3½oz fresh peas
2 tbsp olive oil
75g/2¾oz butter
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the turbot

75g/2¾oz butter
4 x 200g/7oz turbot fillet, pin-boned, skin on

For the Champagne sauce

50g/1¾oz butter
2 medium shallots, finely sliced
150ml/5fl oz dry white wine
150ml/5fl oz fish stock
150ml/5fl oz double cream
110ml/3¾fl oz Champagne
2 tbsp chopped chives

To serve

sprigs of fresh chervil




Method


Bring a pan of salted water to the boil and cook the potatoes for 10-15 minutes. Drain and set aside.


Bring a separate pan of salted water to the boil and cook the vegetables, starting with the broccoli, then asparagus, then broad beans and then peas. Cook the broccoli for 8-10 minutes, depending on the size, then add the other vegetables at 2 minute intervals.


For the turbot, heat a frying pan until hot. Add the butter and the fish, skin-side down. Cook over a medium heat for 2 minutes until the skin is crisp and the fish is cooked two-thirds of the way through. Flip over and cook for another minute, then remove from the heat and leave to rest in a warm place for one minute.


For the sauce, heat a frying pan until medium-hot, add the butter and the shallots and fry for a couple of minutes, or until softened, but not browned.


Add the white wine and cook until the volume of liquid has reduced by half, then add the fish stock and cook until reduced by half again. Add the cream and cook once more until reduced by one-third. Strain through a fine sieve into a clean pan, check the seasoning, adding salt and pepper to taste and set aside.


For the vegetables, heat a frying pan and add the oil, once hot add the potatoes cook for 2-3 minutes, then add the vegetables. Add the butter and season with salt and pepper and stir.


Just before serving, return the sauce to the heat and warm until just simmering, then add the champagne and chives and stir through.


Place the vegetables in the centre of a serving bowl and top with the fish. Pour over the Champagne sauce and garnish with chervil.



