

Posh cheese on toast with apple compôte and baby beetroot salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2



A delightfully melty cheese tastes divine on sourdough toast, served here with a classy compôte and salad.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the cheese on toast

1 tbsp olive oil
2 slices sourdough
50g/1¾oz unsalted butter
8 large pickled onions
200g/7oz firm cow's cheese, (such as Ogelshield), sliced

For the apple compôte

1 tbsp olive oil
1 tsp dried chilli flakes
50ml/2fl oz white wine vinegar
50g/1¾oz caster sugar
3 Braeburn apples, peeled, cored and chopped

For the baby beetroot salad

1 bunch baby beetroots, cut into quarters
1 banana shallot, sliced
110ml/3¾fl oz white wine vinegar
1 tsp salt
1 tsp sugar
50g/1¾oz lamb’s lettuce
50g/1¾oz mizuna leaves




Method


For the cheese on toast, drizzle the oil over the slices of bread and place in a hot frying pan and toast either side for a minute. Heat a clean frying pan and add the butter. Once hot and melted, add the pickled onions and cook until they colour all over.


For the apple compôte, heat a grill to high. Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat. Add the chilli flakes, vinegar and sugar and fry for one minute.


Add the apple and cook for five minutes, or until the apples are beginning to break down and soften. Place into a blender and blend until smooth.


Spread the compôte over the toasted bread and slice the pickled onions and place on top. Lay the cheese over the onions and place under the grill until melted.


For the baby beetroot salad, place the baby beetroots and sliced shallots in a bowl.


Put the vinegar, 110ml/3¾fl oz of water, salt and sugar in a saucepan and once warm, pour it over the beetroot and shallots and leave them for 2-3 minutes.


Place the leaves in a large bowl and add the beetroot and shallots and a little of the pickling liquor.


To serve, place the cheese on toast on a plate and serve the salad leaves next to the toast.



