

Olive breadsticks




Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 36 breadsticks


Recommended by
4 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




These pencil-thin sticks studded with green olives are great served with olive oil or your favourite dips for a party.

  Equipment and preparation: You will need a mixer fitted with a dough hook.






By Paul Hollywood


From The Great British Bake Off






Ingredients

1kg/2lb 2oz strong white bread flour, plus extra for dusting
20g/¾oz salt
20g/¾oz instant yeast
800ml/1½ pints tepid water
4 tbsp olive oil, plus extra for oiling
1 x 1kg/2lb 2oz jar pitted green olives in brine, drained
fine semolina, for dusting (optional)




Method


Oil two 2-3 litre/3½-5¼ pints square plastic container.


Put the flour into the bowl of a mixer fitted with a dough hook. Add the salt to one side of the bowl and the yeast to the other. Add three-quarters of the water and begin mixing on a slow speed. As the dough starts to come together, gradually add the remaining water.


Mix for a further 5-8 minutes on a medium speed. The dough should now be wet and stretch easily when pulled. Add the olive oil and mix for a further two minutes. Add the olives and mix until well-distributed.


Put the dough into the oiled containers and leave until they have at least tripled in size – for approximately an hour.


Line four baking trays with baking parchment or silicone paper and preheat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7.


Dust the work surface heavily with flour – add some semolina too, if you have some. Carefully tip the dough onto the surface. It will be very loose and flowing – but don’t worry. Rather than knocking it back, handle it gently so that you keep as much air in the dough as possible.


Dust the top of the dough with flour and then stretch it out gently to a rough rectangle. Starting at one long edge, cut the dough into approximately 36 strips. Stretch each piece out until 20-25cm/8-10in long. Place six strips onto each of the prepared baking trays, spacing them apart.


Bake the dough sticks for 10-15 minutes. Cool on wire rack.



