

Orange panna cotta with mint roasted rhubarb



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
6 people



Creamy panna cotta infused with vanilla and orange and served with sweet, tangy rhubarb. A delicious dinner party dessert that can be prepared in advance.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the panna cotta

2 blood oranges, juice and rind reserved
75g/2½oz caster sugar
150ml/5fl oz double cream
1 vanilla pod, split lengthways
2 gelatine leaves, soaked in water for a few minutes until soft
300ml/10fl oz buttermilk

For the mint roasted rhubarb

300g/10oz rhubarb, cut in 2cm/¾in pieces
1 tbsp caster sugar
orange juice, reserved from above
2 large sprigs fresh mint, leaves picked and torn




Method


For the panna cotta, preheat the oven to 140C/275F/Gas 1.


Place the orange rind on a baking tray and bake in the oven for 20 minutes, or until completely dry.


In a small pan, heat the dried rind with the sugar, cream and vanilla. Simmer until the sugar has dissolved. Remove the orange rind and vanilla.


Squeeze the excess water from the softened gelatine leaves, then add to the cream mixture and continue to simmer until dissolved. Remove from the heat and stir in the buttermilk.


Place four dariole moulds or ramekins on a baking tray and pour in the panna cotta mixture. Chill in the fridge for 1-2 hours, or until set.


For the mint roasted rhubarb, preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Place the rhubarb in a roasting tin, sprinkle over the sugar, then drizzle over the orange juice and mint. Roast the rhubarb in the oven for 8-12 minutes, or until just tender.


To serve, remove the panna cotta from the fridge. To remove the panna cotta from the moulds, briefly dip the base of each mould into a bowl of boiled water. Gently slide a knife around the edge of each panna cotta and turn out into the centre of a serving plate. Place the roasted rhubarb on the side and drizzle over any juice left in the roasting tin.



