

Vietnamese-style crayfish and noodle salad




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 6



I adore this light and fresh crayfish salad. Buy the freshest, finest ingredients you can – this dish is all about fresh flavours.






By Mary Berry


From Mary Berry's Foolproof Cooking






Ingredients

200g/7oz extra-fine dried rice noodles
½ cucumber, halved lengthways
150g/5½oz cooked and peeled crayfish tails
1 red pepper, deseeded and thinly sliced
150g/5½oz beansprouts
6 spring onions, thinly sliced on the diagonal
1 small carrot, cut into fine matchsticks
½–1 fresh red chilli, deseeded and finely chopped
1 small bunch fresh coriander, chopped
1 small bunch fresh mint, chopped
3cm/1¼in piece fresh root ginger, peeled and finely grated
1 garlic clove, crushed
30g/1oz salted peanuts, chopped, to serve (optional)
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the dressing

3 tbsp Thai fish sauce
3 tbsp lime juice (1–2 limes)
3 tbsp light muscovado sugar
1 tbsp sesame oil




Method


Cook the rice noodles in boiling water according to the packet instructions, or until they are al dente, then drain and refresh in cold water. Drain again and snip into shorter lengths.


Using a teaspoon, scoop out the cucumber seeds along the middle of the half and discard. Thinly slice the cucumber on the diagonal and tip into a large salad bowl.


Add all the remaining salad ingredients, including the cooked noodles, season with salt and pepper, and toss together.


For the dressing, mix all the ingredients together in a small bowl. Just before serving, pour the dressing over the salad and toss together. Scatter with the peanuts, if using.




Recipe Tips
Instead of the crayfish, you could use prawns or pre-cooked meat such as sliced beef fillet or shredded chicken.

  The vegetables, if covered and chilled, can be prepared up to 6 hours ahead. Add the noodles, crayfish and herbs and dress just before serving.

  If you have no fresh mint, add a tablespoon of mint sauce instead.

