

Oven baked pollock with radishes, borage flowers and lardo



Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
2 people



Lardo is pork fat cured with herbs and spices; it can be found in good Italian delicatessens. Here, it melts beautifully on top of the fish, adding an extra layer of flavour.






By Tom Kerridge


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients

1.2kg/2lb11oz pollock fillet, skinned and pin boned
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 banana shallots, finely chopped
10 white peppercorns
5 sprigs fresh thyme
100ml/3½fl oz white wine
100ml/3½fl oz white wine vinegar
50ml/2fl oz double cream
200g/7oz cold butter, diced
10 radishes, cut in half lengthways with the tops still on
200g/7oz girolles mushrooms
50ml/2fl oz water
12 borage flowers, for garnish
8 thin slices lardo




Method


Sprinkle the pollock with a little sea salt, wrap in cling film then place in the fridge for two hours.


Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5. Rinse the fish and pat dry with kitchen then cut into four portions and place onto an ovenproof dish lined with a piece of buttered greaseproof paper.


Place the shallots, peppercorns and thyme into a saucepan with the white wine and the vinegar and simmer over a medium heat until reduced down to a glaze.


Add the double cream and bring to the boil then reduce the heat and gradually whisk in 150g/5oz of the butter. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, pass through a sieve and keep warm.


Place a knob of butter onto each of the portions of pollock then place in the oven for three minutes.


Baste the fish with the melted butter and then return to the oven for another 3-4 minutes or until just cooked.


While the fish is cooking, wilt the radishes down a frying pan with a little butter and sea salt then set them aside and keep warm.


Heat a frying pan until hot, add the remaining butter, the girolles and the water and cook until the mushrooms are softened.


When the fish is cooked, spoon the butter sauce onto warmed serving plates, add the radishes and place the fish on top. Add the girolles and then place a couple of slices of lardo on top of the fish. Garnish with the borage flowers and serve immediately.



