

Oyster po'boys



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 6


Recommended by
1 person



The beauty of this recipe is that the cornmeal crust not only gives a fab texture and flavour but it 'seals' the oyster before so it cooks lightly in its own juices and none of the fat is absorbed from deep frying.






By The Hairy Bikers






Ingredients

18 freshly shucked oysters, or more if you like
grapeseed oil or vegetable oil, for deep frying

For the remoulade

1 small jar mayonnaise, or make your own
1 tbsp chopped fresh tarragon
1 tbsp capers
1 tbsp finely chopped shallots
1 tsp French mustard
dash Tabasco
1 tbsp tomato purée
2 tbsp lemon juice
1 tsp red wine vinegar
½ tsp cayenne pepper
1 tbsp horseradish sauce

For the cornmeal crust

225g/8oz cornmeal
1 tbsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground fennel
1 tsp cayenne pepper
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the egg wash

2 eggs
285ml/½pint milk

To serve

French stick, warmed
butter
crisp lettuce, such as cos, torn




Method


To make the remoulade mix all the ingredients together. Taste and adjust any of the ingredients you think necessary.


For the cornmeal crust, combine all the ingredients in a bowl. Add salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste.


In a separate bowl, combine the egg and milk in a bowl for the egg wash.


Dry the freshly shucked oysters with kitchen towel then dip in the egg wash and then in the cornmeal crust mixture, coating liberally.


Heat the grapeseed or vegetable oil in a large pan for deep frying until a breadcrumb sizzles gently in it (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous - do not leave unattended).


Deep-fry the coated oysters until golden, about 2-3 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon and drain on kitchen towel.


Take a freshly warmed French stick, split down the middle and butter. Top with a layer of lettuce then drizzle over the remoulade sauce. Add the deep-fried oysters and cover with the other half of the French loaf.


Eat at once.



