

Pancetta king prawns, pecorino and pear foam and a beetroot and apple salad



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
1 to 2 hours


Serves
Serves 2



This is inspired by Heston Blumenthal’s ‘The Sound of The Sea’. The beetroot salad is the stony beach, the foam the surf and the prawns are like dolphins in the surf. Don’t forget the parsley sea weed!






By The Hairy Bikers


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the pecorino and pear foam

125ml/4½fl oz single cream
2 pears, peeled, core removed
110g/4oz pecorino cheese, finely grated
½ tsp xanthum gum (available from health food shops and online)

For the prawns

6 large raw king prawns, peeled, de-veined
6 wooden skewers, soaked in water for ten minutes
6 thin slices smoked pancetta
2 tbsp flour
1 tsp smoked paprika
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 free-range eggs, beaten
2 tbsp vegetable oil, for frying

For the salad

4 small beetroots, cooked, peeled, finely diced
1 Granny Smith apple, peeled, core removed, finely diced
1 mandarin orange, peeled, white pith removed, segmented
6 fresh mint leaves, finely chopped
2 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp white wine vinegar

To serve

½ pear, core removed, cut lengthways into thin slices
small handful chopped fresh flatleaf parsley




Method


For the pecorino and pear foam, blend the cream and pears in a food processor to a fine purée and strain this mixture through a sieve.


Heat the strained pear and cream mixture and grated pecorino in a saucepan over a low heat, stirring constantly, for 1-2 minutes, or until the cheese has melted. Add the xanthum gum to the mixture and whisk to dissolve and thicken the mixture.


When the mixture is cooled, pour into an espuma gun and charge with two gas chargers. Keep in the fridge until needed. (If you don't have an espuma gun, blend the sauce with a hand blender until light and foamy before serving.)


For the prawns, thread the prawns onto the wooden skewers from top to bottom so that the prawns are threaded onto the skewers in a straight line. Wrap each prawn skewer in a piece of pancetta.


Mix the flour and paprika together in a bowl and season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Whisk the eggs in a bowl. Dredge each prawn skewer in the flour, shake off any excess, then dip into the beaten egg. Dredge each prawn skewer in the flour again and shake off any excess.


Heat the vegetable oil in a frying pan and fry the prawn skewers for 3-4 minutes, or until prawns are cooked through, golden-brown and crisp. (You may need to do this in batches.)


For the salad, mix all the ingredients together in a bowl until well combined.


To serve, place the salad at one end of each of two serving plates. Spray the pecorino and pear foam into the middle of the plates and top with the battered prawns. Place the pear slices onto the otherend of each of the plates and scatter with the parsley.



