

Paneer, mushroom and spinach wrap



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 5


Recommended by
3 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




If you can't be bothered to make all the bits, the wrap works well without the mushrooms and also without the paneer; the spinach paste is the only necessary element. I sometimes make this with tofu when I have some lying around.






By Anjum Anand


From Indian Food Made Easy






Ingredients
For the spinach paste

225g/8oz baby spinach leaves, washed
45g/1¾oz fresh coriander, leaves and stalks
6 large garlic cloves, peeled
5cm/2in piece fresh ginger, peeled and roughly chopped
6 tbsp roasted and salted peanuts
2-3 tbsp lemon juice, or to taste
1 tbsp vegetable oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1-3 green chillies, seeds removed, roughly chopped (optional)

For the tandoori mushrooms

75ml/2½fl oz Greek-style yoghurt
1 tsp each garam masala, ground cumin, ground fennel seeds and green cardamom powder
2 tsp crushed garlic
1 rounded tsp grated ginger
2 tsp gram flour
salt, to taste
2 tsp lemon juice
¼-½ tsp red chilli powder, or to taste
2 tsp vegetable oil
2 tbsp water
200g/7oz Portobello mushrooms, cleaned, boiled for 15 minutes, cooled and thickly sliced

For the paneer

2 tbsp vegetable oil
100ml/3½fl oz water
300-350g/10-12oz paneer, cut into 2.5cm/1in cubes
½ small onion, thinly sliced

To serve

5 ready-made flour tortillas, wrapped in foil and placed in the oven for the last five minutes of cooking
You'll need 5-6 wooden skewers, soaked in water for half an hour




Method


For the spinach paste, place all the spinach paste ingredients into a blender and blend until smooth.


For the tandoori mushrooms, place all the ingredients except the mushrooms into a blender and blend to a smooth paste. Add the mushrooms to the paste and leave to marinate for 20 minutes.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


For the paneer, heat the oil in a large non-stick pan. Add the spinach paste and the water and cook over a medium heat for 8-10 minutes, or until the paste starts to thicken. Add the paneer and the onion and cook for another minute, or until the onion just starts to soften.


Meanwhile, thread the marinated mushrooms onto skewers, place onto an oiled baking sheet and transfer to the oven. Bake for 20 minutes, turning halfway through the cooking time. Once cooked, add the mushrooms to the paneer mixture.


To serve, divide the filling into five portions and place each portion onto a warmed tortilla. Roll up and cut on the diagonal.



