

Parsnip, apple and raisin mini-muffins




Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Makes 24 mini-muffins


Recommended by
1 person


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This is as close to a sugar-free muffin (yet still delicious) recipe that you can find. The sweetness comes from the apple, honey, raisins and parsnip.

  Equipment and preparation: You will need 2 x 12-hole mini-muffin tins.





By Ramona Andrews






Ingredients

130g/4½oz plain flour
130g/4½oz plain wholemeal flour
2 tsp baking powder
1 tsp mixed spice
pinch salt
1 free-range egg, lightly beaten
70g/2½oz butter, melted and cooled slightly
1 parsnip (about 125g/4½oz pre-peeled weight), peeled and grated
1 small apple, grated
75g/2¾oz raisins
5 tbsp clear honey
100ml/3½fl oz apple juice

For the topping

125g/4½oz unsalted butter, softened
125g/4½oz full-fat cream cheese
2 tbsp clear honey
1 tsp vanilla extract




Method


Heat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Line two mini-muffin tins with squares of baking parchment, pushing them down to make little cases (alternatively use shop-bought mini-muffin cases).


Mix the flours, baking powder, mixed spice and salt together in a bowl.


Whisk together the egg and butter in a separate bowl. Stir in the parsnips, apple, raisins and honey and then add to the dry ingredients. Add the apple juice and stir to combine, but take care not to overmix.


Spoon the mixture into the muffin tins and bake for 18-20 minutes, or until risen (check after 15 minutes).


For the topping, beat the butter in a bowl until smooth and creamy.


In another bowl, beat the cream cheese until creamy then stir in the honey and vanilla extract. Add the creamed butter and stir to combine. Transfer the topping into a piping bag fitted with a large star tip. Refrigerate the piping bag for about 30 minutes (leaving the piping bag in the fridge makes the topping easier to pipe).


Pipe the topping onto the muffins.




Recipe Tips
If making this with kids, you may want to pipe the topping straight away and omit the step of putting the cream cheese in fridge to harden slightly.

