

Ultimate Korean fried chicken with pickled radish



Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
3 people



Judy Joo combines the wonderful flavours of Korea to bring you her ultimate fried chicken recipe. Serve with pickled radish and a duo of sauces for a mouthwatering meal.





By Judy Joo


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the pickled radish

110ml/3¾fl oz rice vinegar
110g/4oz superfine sugar or caster sugar
1 tsp kosher salt or sea salt
500g/1lb 2oz radish, preferably Daikon, cut into 10mm/½in cubes

For the coating

35g/1¼oz cornflour
2½ tsp kosher salt or sea salt
½ tsp baking powder
freshly ground black pepper
2 chicken drumsticks, thighs and wings (with tips), bone in, skin on
vegetable oil, for deep-frying

For the batter

70g/ 2½oz cornflour
35g/1¼oz fine matzo meal
35g/1¼oz plain flour
2 tbsp chilli flakes, preferably Korean chilli flakes (gochugaru)
1 tbsp kosher salt or sea salt
2½ tsp garlic granules
2½ tsp onion granules
¼ tsp baking powder
5 tbsp vodka
2 tbsp chilli paste, preferably Korean chilli paste (gochujang)

For the black soy umani sauce

250ml/9fl oz soy sauce
2 tbsp rice wine vinegar
4 tbsp mirin
100g/3½oz dark brown sugar
2 garlic cloves, crushed
4 tsp grated fresh ginger
½ tsp chilli paste, preferably gochujang (Korean chilli paste)
1 tsp sesame oil
1½ tbsp cornflour

For the red chilli sauce

70g/2½oz chilli paste, preferably Korean chilli paste (gochujang)
4 tsp soy sauce
1 tbsp rice wine vinegar
70g/2½oz dark brown sugar
3 garlic cloves, crushed
2 tsp grated fresh ginger
4 tsp sesame oil
1 tsp roasted white sesame seeds

To garnish

¼ bunch fresh chives, chopped
2 tsp black sesame seeds




Method


For the pickled radish, put the rice vinegar, sugar, salt and 110ml/3¾fl oz water in a bowl. Whisk until the sugar and salt have dissolved. Add the radish and toss to coat. Cover and leave at room temperature for 24 hours, then place in the fridge.


For the coating, put the cornflour, salt, baking powder and pepper in a large mixing bowl and whisk together. Add the chicken and toss well until evenly coated. Transfer the chicken to a rack, shaking well to get rid of any excess coating. Leave to rest for 1 hour in the fridge.


Pour enough oil into a large casserole dish to reach a depth of 5cm/2in. Heat the oil over a medium-high heat until it reaches 175C/350F (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


For the batter, mix the dry ingredients in a large bowl. In a separate bowl whisk the wet ingredients and 235ml/8¼fl oz water together. Just before frying, whisk the wet mixture into the dry mixture. The consistency should be relatively thin and runny.


Dip each piece of chicken into the batter, letting excess batter drip off. Suspend the chicken in the oil for a couple of seconds for it to set before letting it slip completely into the oil. You may need to do this in batches.


Fry the chicken for 15-20 minutes, or until golden brown and cooked through. Transfer to a wire rack to drain.


For the black soy umani sauce, put all of the ingredients except the cornflour in a small saucepan and simmer over medium heat until the sugar dissolves. Mix the cornflour with 1½ tbsp water and whisk into the sauce. Bring to the boil, then remove from the heat.


For the red chilli sauce, put all of the ingredients in a small saucepan and simmer over medium heat for 2 to 3 minutes, whisking well to make sure ingredients are dissolved and incorporated. .


Place the chicken and pickled radishes on a serving plate with the sauces. Garnish with fresh chives and sesame seeds.




Recipe Tips
It is important to suspend the chicken in the oil for a couple of seconds for it to set before letting it slip completely into the oil. Otherwise the chicken will fall and stick to the bottom of the pot.

