

Pea, mint and ricotta ravioli with a pancetta butter



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 2



Fresh peas and mint leaves combine with creamy ricotta to make the filling for these delicious fresh pasta ravioli.






By Emma Kennedy


From Celebrity MasterChef






Ingredients
For the pasta

150g/5½oz tipo ‘00’ pasta flour
2 free-range eggs

For the filling

knob of butter
2 banana shallots, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
100g/3½oz fresh peas, podded weight
1 tbsp ricotta
½ lemon, zest only
15 mint leaves, finely chopped
pinch salt
pinch pepper
pea shoots, for decoration

For the butter

50g/1¾oz clarified butter
50g/1¾oz pancetta, cubed




Method


For the pasta, put the flour onto a work surface and make a well in the centre. Beat the eggs and pour the mixture into the well. Using two fingers bring the flour and egg together, working in a circular motion from the centre of the well, until it forms a dough. Knead until smooth.


Cut the dough into four equal pieces. Pass each piece of dough through a pasta machine; start on the widest setting and pass the dough through five times on each setting, moving it one setting at a time up to the narrowest. Repeat for all pieces of the dough. Lay the pasta sheets onto a floured surface and cut out rounds. Leave the pasta on the floured surface covered with a damp cloth until the filling is ready.


For the filling, gently fry the shallots and garlic for a few minutes, add the peas and cook until soft. Take the mixture off the heat and stir in the ricotta, lemon zest and mint and set aside to cool.


Put a teaspoon of the filling onto a pasta circle. Wet the edges of a second pasta circle and carefully place on top. Make sure you get all the air out of the ravioli, or it may cook unevenly or burst open during cooking.


For the butter sauce, cook the pancetta in a hot pan over a medium heat until golden brown.


Put the clarified butter in a small pan, add the cooked pancetta and heat gently to warm through.


Meanwhile, cook the ravioli in boiling water for two minutes. Scoop the cooked ravioli out of the pan with a slotted spoon, and place in a bowl to dry off for a few seconds before draining any excess water from the bowl. Divide the pasta between two serving plates, pour the butter sauce over the pasta, scatter the pea shoots over and serve immediately.



