

Peach melba with sugar roasted doughnuts and vanilla ice cream






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Fresh homemade doughnuts are impossible to resist. Try them with ice cream and this hot, delicious sweet fruit sauce.






By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients
For the doughnuts

250g/9oz strong white flour
25g/1oz caster sugar, plus 75g/2½oz for dusting
pinch salt
25g/1oz butter, softened
14g/½oz fast-action dried yeast
oil, for deep frying

For the sauce

75g/2½oz caster sugar
2 tbsp brandy
1 orange, juice only
½ x 400g/12oz tin sliced peaches, drained
25g/1oz flaked almonds
25g/1oz pistachio nuts
100g/3½oz raspberries
500g/1lb 2oz vanilla ice cream




Method


For the doughnuts, place the flour, sugar, salt and butter into a bowl. Put the yeast into a jug and mix with 150ml/5fl oz of water until smooth, then pour into the flour mixture.


Mix well, then knead until a smooth dough is formed.


Set aside in a bowl, cover and rest for an hour until doubled in size.


When the dough has proved, heat the oil in a deep-fat fryer to 150C/300F. Alternatively, heat the oil in a deep, heavy-based saucepan until a breadcrumb sizzles and turns brown when dropped into it. (CAUTION: hot oil can be dangerous. Do not leave unattended.)


Take golfball-sized pieces of the dough and roll into balls.


Carefully lower the dough balls into the hot oil in batches and deep fry for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown. Remove from the pan using a slotted spoon and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


Roll in the reserved sugar.


For the sauce, heat a frying pan until hot, add the caster sugar and heat until it forms a caramel, swirling occasionally to combine the sugar with the melted sugar.


Add the brandy and flambé by setting light to the mixture. Let the flames flare up then die down. (CAUTION: make sure there are no flammable materials above the pan when flaming.) Add the orange juice and swirl to combine.


Add the tinned peaches, flaked almonds, pistachio nuts and raspberries and heat through for two minutes only – you don’t want to let the raspberries break down.


To serve, place two scoops of ice cream in each of four bowls, add a few doughnuts then pour the sauce over the top.



