

Peach crumble tarts with vanilla ice cream



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Dietary

 
Vegetarian








By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the crème patissière

2 tbsp plain flour
4 free-range egg yolks
600ml/1 pint milk
4-6 tbsp caster sugar

For the tarts

flour, for dusting
450g/1lb ready-made puff pastry
1 free-range egg, beaten
8 fresh peaches, sliced
50g/2oz butter, melted, plus extra for greasing

For the crumble topping

50g/2oz butter
50g/2oz demerara sugar
100g/3½oz plain flour

To serve

ready-made vanilla ice cream
fresh mint sprigs




Method


For the crème patissière, place the flour and egg yolks into a large bowl and whisk until smooth.


Heat the milk and sugar in a pan and slowly bring to the boil.


Pour the milk mixture onto the egg yolk mixture, stirring constantly. Mix well, then return the mixture to the pan.


Stir over a low heat until the mixture thickens, then remove from the heat and set aside.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


For the tarts, roll out the pastry on a lightly floured surface, then lightly prick all over with a fork. Cut out 4 x 15cm/6in rounds and place them into the fridge to rest for 10-15 minutes.


Remove the pastry rounds from the fridge. Lightly grease a non-stick baking sheet and place the pastry discs onto the baking sheet.


Lightly brush the edges of the pastry rounds with the beaten egg and spread a spoonful of the crème patissière onto the middle of each disc.


Place the sliced peaches on top of the crème patissière and drizzle over the melted butter.


Transfer the tarts to the oven and bake for 8-10 minutes.


Meanwhile, for the crumble topping, place all the crumble ingredients into a food processor and pulse until the mixture resembles breadcrumbs.


Remove the tarts from the oven and sprinkle over the crumble mixture. Return to the oven for 10-15 minutes, or until golden-brown.


To serve, remove the tarts from the oven and place onto four serving plates, garnished with a spoonful of ice cream and a sprig of fresh mint.



