

Peanut butter monkey nuts with chocolate sauce



Preparation time
overnight


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 3-4



Fancy getting crafty in the kitchen? Andrew Turner shows you how to make your own peanut butter for a wonderfully different dessert.

  Equipment and preparation: For this recipe you will need silicone moulds, a blender and sillicone paper.






By Andrew Turner


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the strawberry jam

390g/13½oz strawberries, preferably Gariguette, wiped clean with a cloth, hulled
340g/11¾oz granulated white sugar
½ lime, juice only
4g jam pectin

For the peanut filling

450g/1lb unsalted peanuts, cleaned
1½ tsp honey, preferably Acacia
1 tsp pink Himalayan salt
1½ tbsp peanut oil

For the sugar coating

250g/9oz mannitol

For the sugar powder dip

50g/1¾oz icing sugar
5g cardamom pods, seeds removed

For the chocolate sauce

140g/5oz granulated sugar
125ml/4fl oz double cream
50g/1¾oz good quality dark chocolate, broken into small pieces




Method


For the strawberry jam, put the strawberries in a bowl, add the sugar and gently gently toss through. Cover with cling film and leave at room temperature overnight.


Put the strawberry mixture in a jam pan, add the lime juice and cook until the sugar dissolves, skimming any scum that rises to the surface. Then bring to a rolling boil for 5 minutes, or until the temperature reaches 105C. Leave to cool, then place in a sterilized jar.


For the peanut filling, preheat the oven to 165C/145C Fan/Gas 3.


Roast the peanuts, reserving 25 peanuts, for 25 minutes, or until golden-brown. Put the roasted peanuts in a blender with the honey and salt. Blend until smooth, this will take a few minutes. Then slowly add the peanut oil and mix until it resembles peanut butter. Transfer to a piping bag.


Pipe the peanut butter mixture into sillicone moulds, the moulds should be small and preferably in the shape of monkey nuts, making sure there are no air pockets. Add a dot of strawberry jam on top. Cut the reserved peanuts in half and then press a peanut half into each mould. Transfer to the freezer and leave to set overnight.


For the sugar coating, warm the mannitol in a pan until it becomes liquid.


Remove the moulds from the freezer, and carefully remove the peanut filling from the moulds. Take a nut shape and carefully stick a tooth pick in it (you could also use a cake tester for this), then coat in the liquid mannitol. (CAUTION– be very careful as the liquid mannitol will be extremely hot). Put the nut shape on silicone paper, repeat the process with the remaining nut shapes. Keep at room temperature.


For the sugar powder dip, blend the ingredients together and pass through a fine sieve. Dust the nut shapes in the sugar powder.


For the chocolate sauce, put the sugar, 120ml/4fl oz water and the cream into a saucepan and bring to the boil. Once the sugar has dissolved slowly add the chocolate and whisk until it has melted.


To serve, put the sugar dusted nuts on a serving plate, place the sauce in a separate bowl and the strawberry jam in a separate bowl.



