

Peanut-crusted chicken with buttery mash and parsley and chive butter



Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person







By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the parsley and chive butter

100g/3½oz butter, softened
3 tbsp chopped fresh flatleaf parsley
3 tbsp chopped chives

For the chicken

4 chicken breasts, skin removed
110g/4oz roasted peanuts
60g/2oz Japanese panko breadcrumbs
75g/3oz plain flour
2 free-range eggs, beaten
50g/2oz butter
2 tbsp olive oil

For the mash

1kg/2lb 2oz floury potatoes (such as King Edwards or Desirée), peeled, cut into chunks
110g/3½oz butter
110ml/3½fl oz full-fat milk
salt and freshly ground black pepper

To serve

50g/2oz butter
300g/11oz baby spinach leaves
freshly grated nutmeg




Method


For the parsley and chive butter, mix the butter, parsley and chives together in a mixing bowl then spoon onto a sheet of clingfilm or greaseproof paper.


Roll into a log, twisting the ends to secure, then place into the fridge for one hour to harden.


For the chicken, butterfly the chicken breasts by cutting almost in half lengthways, open the breast out and flatten with the palm of your hand.


Blend the peanuts to a powder in a food processor and mix with the breadcrumbs.


Place the flour and beaten egg into separate bowls and season each with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Dredge the chicken in the flour, then dip into the egg mixture and roll in the peanut breadcrumbs.


Heat the butter and olive oil in a large frying pan. Add the chicken breasts, one at a time, and fry for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until golden-brown. Test the chicken breast is cooked by inserting a skewer into the thickest part of the meat. If the juices run clear, the chicken is cooked. Remove the chicken from the pan and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


For the mash, cook the potatoes in boiling water for 12-15 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender.


Drain the potatoes and return to the pan. Place over a low heat for one minute to drive off any excess moisture.


Mash the potatoes well or pass through a ricer into a clean saucepan.


Meanwhile, place the butter and milk into a saucepan and bring to a simmer then beat into the mashed potato. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


To serve, melt the butter in a frying pan until just foaming, then add the spinach and cook until just wilted. Season with a little salt, black pepper and nutmeg.


Spoon the mash onto serving plates, top with the chicken and spoon the spinach alongside. Cut several slices of butter and place on top of the chicken breast.



