

Penne all'Amatriciana



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 2


Recommended by
1 person







By Antonio Carluccio


From Take on the Takeaway






Ingredients
For the sauce

3-4 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
1 onion, peeled and chopped
4 slices streaky bacon, rind removed, chopped
500g/1lb 2oz ripe cherry tomatoes, cut in half
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the pasta

1 tsp salt
2 litres/3½pints boiling water
250g/9oz penne pasta
20g/3/4 oz parmesan cheese, finely grated, to serve

For the bruschetta

2 ciabatta rolls, cut in half
1 garlic clove, peeled and cut in half
extra virgin olive oil, for drizzling
250g/9oz ripe cherry tomatoes, cut into quarters
1 x 125g/4½oz ball buffalo mozzarella
salt, to taste
1 small bunch fresh basil, leaves only




Method


For the sauce, heat the oil in a frying pan, add the onion and cook over a medium heat for about 2-3 minutes, until softened.


Add the bacon to the pan and fry gently until lightly golden-brown, about ten minutes.


Add the tomatoes to the pan and stir well.


Reduce the heat and simmer until the tomatoes begin to break down, about five minutes. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper, but take care with the salt as the bacon is salty.


For the pasta, place the salt into a saucepan of boiling water and add the penne.


Boil for 8-10 minutes, or according to packet instructions, until al dente (the pasta should give some resistance when bitten into). Drain, then add to the pan with the sauce and mix well.


Meanwhile, for the bruschetta, preheat the grill to medium. Toast the ciabatta halves on both sides.


Lightly rub the cut sides of the garlic clove over the ciabatta halves.


Drizzle generously with olive oil.


Place the tomatoes on top of the ciabatta. Tear the mozzarella into pieces and place on top of the tomatoes.


Season, to taste, with salt and drizzle over a little more olive oil. Tear the basil leaves into pieces and scatter over the top.


To serve, divide the pasta between two bowls and sprinkle over the parmesan. Serve with the bruschetta with mozzarella.



