

Penne with halloumi and cherry tomatoes




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
22 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Halloumi, cherry tomatoes, oregano and flecks of chilli combine to make a stunning midweek pasta supper.






By Matt Tebbutt


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the pasta

250g/9oz cherry tomatoes, on the vine
1 tbsp olive oil
1 red onion, peeled, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, peeled, finely chopped
1 red chilli, finely chopped
250g/9oz halloumi cheese, cut into 1cm/½in cubes
400g/14oz canned cherry tomatoes
1 tbsp chopped fresh oregano leaves
salt and freshly ground black pepper
400g/14oz fresh penne, cooked according to packet instructions

For the salad

1 tsp Dijon mustard
1 tbsp white wine vinegar
3 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
75g/3oz rocket leaves
1 head Little Gem lettuce, cut in half lengthways, leaves separated, washed
75g/3oz lamb's lettuce
3 tbsp freshly grated parmesan (or alternative vegetarian hard cheese)




Method


For the pasta, heat a frying pan until hot over a medium heat, add the fresh cherry tomatoes and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until just softened. Remove from the pan and set aside.


Add the olive oil, red onion, garlic and chilli to the pan the tomatoes were cooked in and fry for 2-3 minutes.


Add the halloumi cheese and cook for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until pale golden-brown on both sides. Add the canned cherry tomatoes and bring to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 2-3 minutes. Add the fresh cherry tomatoes and oregano and cook for a further minute. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Add the cooked pasta to the pan and mix gently until well combined.


For the salad, whisk the mustard and vinegar together in a bowl, then whisk in the olive oil. Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Place all the salad leaves into a bowl and pour over the dressing. Stir until well combined.


To serve, spoon the pasta onto four serving plates and sprinkle over the grated parmesan. Spoon the dressed salad alongside.



