

Peppercorn and herb-crusted venison with homemade tomato chutney and buttered kale



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
Serves 1







By Richard Phillips


From Ready Steady Cook






Ingredients
For the peppercorn and herb-crusted venison

150g/5½oz venison fillet
dash olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
25g/1oz butter
2 garlic cloves, peeled and crushed
4 sprigs fresh thyme, leaves only
55g/2oz fresh breadcrumbs
small handful fresh parsley, chopped
salt, to taste
1 tsp black peppercorns, crushed

For the homemade tomato chutney

2 tsp red wine vinegar
150g/5½oz fresh cherry tomatoes, quartered
1 tsp caster sugar
2 tsp tomato purée
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the buttered kale

25g/1oz butter
large handful fresh kale, chopped
salt and freshly ground black pepper
splash hot water




Method


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


For the venison, tie the venison up with kitchen string - this will help it to retain its shape. Rub with olive oil and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


Heat a frying pan and sear the venison until browned on all sides. Add a knob of the butter, reserving the rest for the crust, and brush the meat with the melted butter. Turn down the heat and add the garlic and half of the thyme. Fry gently for about ten minutes. Remove from the pan and leave to rest for five minutes, then remove the string and cut in half.


Place the breadcrumbs, parsley, salt, crushed peppercorns and the remaining thyme and butter into a mini blender and process until combined.


Spread the crust mixture on top of the venison fillet halves and place onto a baking sheet. Place into the oven and bake for 2-3 minutes, or until golden-brown on top.


For the homemade tomato chutney, place all the ingredients into a small non-reactive pan and simmer for five minutes, or until the tomatoes have softened. Beat with a wooden spoon until smooth and well combined.


For the buttered kale, heat the butter in a large saucepan and add the kale, salt and freshly ground black pepper and a splash of boiling water. Stir over a low heat until wilted.


To serve, place the tomato chutney onto a serving plate. Place the venison on top and serve with the buttered kale.



