

Vanilla and bourbon cheesecake



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
no cooking required


Serves
Serves 6-8


Recommended by
2 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




If you want a truly indulgent dessert then look no further than this rich cheesecake topped with chocolate and toffee sauce and caramelised bananas.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the vanilla and bourbon cheesecake

butter, for greasing
25cm/10in diameter sponge base (cut from a large bought flan case)
200g/7oz caster sugar
3 lemons, finely grated zest only
4 tbsp cornflour
3 tbsp sultanas, soaked in a bit of bourbon
850g/1lb 14oz full fat soft cream cheese
3 medium free-range eggs
1½ tsp vanilla essence
1 vanilla pod, sliced lengthways, seeds removed
whiskey or bourbon, to taste (optional)
375ml/13fl oz cream

For the bananas

10 small bananas
25g/1oz butter
2 tbsp sugar

For the toffee sauce

500ml/18fl oz double cream
175g/6oz unsalted butter
175g/6oz demerara sugar
1 tbsp golden syrup
1 tbsp black treacle

For the chocolate sauce

175g/6oz plain chocolate, broken into pieces
50g/1¾oz caster sugar

To garnish

sprigs of fresh mint




Method


Preheat the oven to 180C/160C Fan/Gas 4. Butter a 25cm/10in loose-bottomed cake tin.


Cut the sponge horizontally into 2 discs. Use 1 disc to line the prepared cake tin.


In a bowl mix together the sugar, lemon zest, cornflour and sultanas using a wooden spoon, then beat in the cream cheese. Add the eggs one by one, then add the vanilla essence, beating constantly until all the eggs are well incorporated.


Add the vanilla seeds and a generous splash of whisky or bourbon (about 4 tablespoons), if using. Add the cream and beat well until the mixture is smooth. Pour gently over the sponge base in the cake tin.


Sit the tin in a deep baking tray filled with 2-3mm of warm water to help create steam during cooking. Bake for 50 minutes until the top is golden. Remove and leave to cool and set completely before removing from the tin.


For the bananas, just before serving, peel the bananas and pan fry in the butter and sugar until brown and slightly caramelised.


For the toffee sauce, in a pan set over a low heat combine the cream, butter and sugar. When the butter and sugar have melted, whisk in the syrup and treacle.


For the chocolate sauce, melt the chocolate in a bowl set over a pan of simmering water (make sure the bottom of the bowl does not touch the water).


Heat the sugar in a pan with 100ml/3½fl oz water, stirring until the sugar dissolves. Bring to the boil. Stir the sugar syrup into the melted chocolate until smooth and shiny.


Cut the cheesecake into wedges and serve with the bananas and the toffee and chocolate sauce. Garnish with fresh mint.



