

Beef ribs with barbecue sauce, baked potato and chive soured cream






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 4-6


Recommended by
26 people



Try James' gently spicy, sticky ribs for the authentic taste of the deep-south. You could finish the ribs off on a barbecue instead of the oven if you prefer.






By James Martin


From James Martin: Home Comforts






Ingredients
For poaching

4 Jacob’s ladder beef ribs
1 onion, chopped
1 head of garlic, cut in half horizontally
1 tsp fennel seeds
2 star anise
4 baking potatoes
a little oil
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
200ml/7fl oz double cream
1 lemon, juice only
3 tbsp chives, finely sliced

For the bbq sauce

25g/1oz butter, plus extra to serve
1 onion, roughly chopped
1 garlic clove, crushed
2 red chillies, finely sliced
1 tsp fennel seeds, crushed
2 star anise
150g/5½oz light muscovado sugar
300g/10½oz tomato ketchup
150g/5½oz chipotle chilli ketchup
150ml/5fl oz dark soy sauce




Method


Place the ribs in a large, wide saucepan. Cover with water and add the onion, garlic, fennel seeds and star anise.


Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat and simmer very gently for three hours, or until the meat is tender, skimming any scum off occasionally.


Preheat the oven to 200C/400F/Gas 6.


Rub the baking potatoes with a little oil. Create four small piles of sea salt in a baking tray then place the potatoes on top. Bake for 1-1½ hours, or until tender.


Meanwhile, make the bbq sauce. Heat a sauté pan until hot and add the butter, onions and garlic and fry for 4-5 minutes, or until softened.


Add the chillies, fennel seeds, star anise and sugar. Cook for a further 3-4 minutes until the sugar has dissolved.


Add the ketchups and soy sauce and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat and simmer for five minutes, or until thickened.


Remove from the heat and cool slightly before placing in a blender. Pulse to form a smooth pureé.


Dip the ribs into the sauce then place into a roasting tray and spoon some more sauce over the top. Place in the oven with the potatoes for 15-20 minutes until sticky.


While the ribs cook, put the double cream, lemon juice, chives and a pinch of salt into a large bowl and whisk until thickened.


Serve the ribs with the jacket potato topped with a dollop of butter and soured cream.



