

Vanilla and yogurt panna cotta with pomegranate jelly






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
over 2 hours


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
8 people



I love the contrast of the white and the red (my favourite colour) in this recipe. But after you have tried this recipe once, if you fancy it, mix up the fruit the next time using mango or even blackberries for a different flavour. Link to the video clip to see how to set your panna cotta on a slant.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need 6 x 200ml/7fl oz pretty glasses for this recipe, a large tray or trays that will easily fit in the fridge, and if you wish to set your panna cotta on a slant either egg cartons, crumpled tea towels or some modelling clay to help prop the glasses up.






By Lorraine Pascale


From Lorraine Pascale: How to be a Better Cook






Ingredients
For the panna cotta layer

3 gelatine leaves
100ml/3½fl oz double cream
100ml/3½fl oz full-fat milk
100g/3½oz caster sugar
1 vanilla pod, seeds only
300g/10½oz Greek yoghurt

For the jelly layer

135g/4¾oz pack raspberry jelly, cut into cubes
300ml/10fl oz pomegranate juice

For the topping

½ pomegranate, seeds only




Method


For the panna cotta, put the gelatine in a bowl of cold water and leave to soak for five minutes.


Place the double cream, milk, sugar and vanilla seeds into a small pan and heat though gently, just enough for the sugar to dissolve, stirring from time to time.


Meanwhile, put the yoghurt in a large jug, stirring to loosen it up and set aside. Remove the creamy mixture from the heat once ready.


The gelatine should be soft by now, so lift it out of the water and squeeze the excess water out. Drop the gelatine into the creamy mixture and stir until dissolved. Leave to cool to body temperature for about 10-15 minutes.


Meanwhile, prepare your glasses. You will need 6 x 200ml/7fl oz pretty glasses for serving, but as the layers are set at a slant, the glasses will need to be propped to one side. Depending on the shape or type of glass, you may find egg cartons or even crumpled tea towels perfect to help prop the glasses. They could also tilt perfectly sitting in individual ramekins. Whatever you use, set them on a large tray or trays that will easily fit in the fridge.


Once cool, pour the creamy mixture over the yoghurt and then gently whisk everything together.


Carefully pour the mixture into the six glasses, dividing it evenly, without allowing any to spill out. Carefully place the tray in the fridge and leave to set for 1-2 hours, or until nice and firm. To start the setting process off quickly, you can always put them in the freezer for 20 minutes or so before popping them in the fridge to finish setting.


Meanwhile, for the jelly layer, place the raspberry jelly into a measuring jug. Pour over 200ml/7fl oz of just-boiled water and stir until the jelly dissolves. Stir in the pomegranate juice, then leave the liquid to cool to room temperature - make sure it is really cool so as to not melt the panna cotta on impact.


Remove the set panna cottas from the fridge and stand the glasses upright, removing any props. Pour the cool jelly over each one, dividing it evenly. Return the glasses back to the fridge for about two hours, or until the jelly is set firm.


When you are ready to serve, top each panna cotta with pomegranate seeds and sit on a serving plate with a small spoon. These will keep for a few days in the fridge.




Recipe Tips
For a lighter dessert, in the past I have used low-fat Greek yoghurt in place of the double cream and full-fat milk which worked nicely. Not quite as creamy as using double cream, but far lighter on the tum.

