

Piri-piri prawns and harissa couscous




Preparation time
30 mins to 1 hour


Cooking time
10 to 30 mins


Serves
4


Recommended by
26 people



Note: If the baharat spice mix is unavailable, make your own blend of black pepper, paprika, ground cumin, ground coriander, freshly grated nutmeg and ground cinnamon and keep the unused spice blend in an airtight jar.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen






Ingredients
For the piri-piri prawns

2 red chillies, seeds removed, roughly chopped
1 dried chilli, roughly chopped
½ lemon, juice only
3 garlic cloves, peeled
1 tbsp sweet smoked paprika
4 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp red wine vinegar
1 tsp sea salt
½ tsp freshly ground black pepper
12 very large prawns, shells removed but tails left on, cleaned

For the couscous

200g/7oz wholegrain couscous
400ml/14fl oz boiling water
1 tsp harissa
1 tbsp pomegranate molasses
1 tsp baharat spice mix (available from Middle Eastern stores and some supermarkets)
½ lemon, juice only
1 red onion, finely sliced
1 pomegranate, fleshy seeds only
1 small bunch coriander, roughly chopped
1 lemon, quartered, to serve




Method


For the piri-piri prawns, place all the ingredients except the prawns into a food processor and blend until smooth.


Place the prawns on a plate and rub over the piri-piri sauce, reserving a little to garnish. Leave to marinate in the fridge for an hour.


Heat a griddle pan until hot and cook the prawns for 4-5 minutes on each side, depending on their size, until the prawns have turned pink and are cooked through.


For the couscous, place the couscous into a bowl, pour over the boiling water and stir with a fork to combine. Add the harissa, pomegranate molasses, baharat and lemon juice and stir once more. Cover with cling film and set aside for 3-4 minutes, until all the liquid has been absorbed into the couscous.


Remove the cling film and fluff up with a fork. Add the red onion, fleshy pomegranate seeds and coriander and mix well.


To serve, place three prawns onto each plate with a pile of couscous. Drizzle over the reserved piri-piri sauce and a squeeze of lemon.



