

Pizza with pata negra ham



Preparation time
1-2 hours


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
1 person



Try making your own Spanish-style gourmet pizza. You can find most of the ingredients at a Spanish delicatessen.






By James Martin


From Saturday Kitchen Best Bites






Ingredients
For the pizza dough

500g/1lb 2oz strong white flour, plus extra for dusting
½ tsp salt
7g sachet dried fast action yeast
1 tbsp olive oil

For the topping

2 tbsp olive oil
2 banana shallots, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
2 x 400g/14oz cans chopped tomatoes
2 tsp sugar
1 bunch fresh basil leaves, chopped
2 large buffalo mozzarella, thickly sliced
200g/7oz piquillo peppers, thickly sliced
16 slices pata negra ham
2 handfuls rocket leaves
small handful basil leaves

For the salad

2 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp malden salt
200g/7oz padron peppers




Method


For the pizza dough, place the flour, salt and yeast into a large bowl, add 300ml/10½fl oz warm water and the olive oil and mix together to form a dough.


Knead the dough for at least five minutes, until elastic.


Cover the dough with cling film, then set aside and allow to prove for one hour.


Divide the dough into four equal pieces and roll each piece into a ball, then roll out onto a floured work surface until about 5mm/¼in thick.


Place onto a floured baking tray and set aside to prove for 30 minutes.


Meanwhile, for the topping, heat a frying pan until hot, and then add the oil, shallots and garlic and fry for 3-4 minutes. Add the tomatoes, sugar and the chopped basil and bring to the boil.


Reduce the heat and simmer for 20 minutes, or until the sauce has thickened. Season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper and set aside to cool.


Preheat the oven to 220C/425F/Gas 7.


Place a heavy baking tray or a pizza stone into the oven to preheat.


Spoon the cooled tomato sauce thinly over the pizza.


Scatter the mozzarella and piquillo peppers over the top.


Carefully transfer the pizza into the oven, pushing the pizzs from the floured tray onto the hot tray or pizza stone.


Cook for 8-10 minutes, or until the base is crisp and the topping is cooked through.


Remove the pizza from the oven and arrange the pata negra on top. Scatter over the rocket and basil leaves.


For the salad, heat a frying pan until hot, add one tablespoon of the olive oil, the malden salt and padron peppers and fry for 2-3 minutes until golden-brown. Remove the peppers from the pan and set aside to drain on kitchen paper.


Serve the pizza with the peppers alongside.



