

Plum pudding cake






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 8


Recommended by
48 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




This is a gorgeous sweet and spicy treat – great as a pudding or with afternoon tea. If you’ve never tried making a cake, this would be a great place to start.






By Nigel Slater


From Nigel Slater's Simple Cooking






Ingredients

250g/8oz plain flour
1 lightly heaped tsp baking powder
1 level tsp bicarbonate of soda
1 lightly heaped tsp ground cinnamon
1 lightly heaped tsp ground ginger
200g/7oz golden syrup
2 heaped tbsp thick honey
125g/4oz butter
125g/4oz light muscovado sugar
350g/12oz plums
2 large eggs
240ml/8fl oz milk

For the spicy plum jam topping

5 plums
1tbsp light muscovado sugar
1tbsp butter
1tbsp syrup from a jar of stem ginger
double cream, to serve




Method


Set the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4. Use baking parchment to line a 24cm/9½in square cake tin or baking dish.


Sift the flour, baking powder, bicarbonate of soda, cinnamon and ginger into a bowl.


Warm the golden syrup, honey and butter very gently in a pan until the butter and sugar melts. Stir in the muscovardo sugar. Set aside and allow to cool slightly.


Halve the plums, or cut them into quarters if they are very large, and remove the stones.


Break the eggs into a bowl, pour in the milk and whisk lightly to mix.


Pour the golden syrup mixture into the flour and mix with a large, metal spoon. Pour in the egg and milk and continue stirring till you have a loose, almost sloppy batter without any traces of flour.


Tip the mixture into the lined cake tin, drop in the plums and bake for 30-35 minutes.


Now for the topping; halve and de-stone the plums and add to the same pan as you cooked the syrup and honey. Add the sugar, butter and the syrup from a jar of crystallised ginger. Cover and leave to cook down.


Serve the cake with a generous topping of the spicy plums and a dollop of cream.



