

Poached salmon with lemon sauce




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4



Fish can be cooked really easily and quickly in a microwave and doesn’t leave a fishy smell in your kitchen. Using store cupboard ingredients you can create a lovely sauce to pour over the fish in no time at all. Serve with some boiled potatoes and green vegetables.





By Let's Get Cooking






Ingredients

4 salmon fillets
250ml/9fl oz skimmed milk
25g/1oz polyunsaturated margarine (suitable for cooking)
25g/1oz plain flour
½ lemon, juice only
black pepper (optional)




Method


Place the salmon fillets in a microwave-safe dish and pour over the milk.


Cover the dish with cling film, ensuring it does not touch the food and leave a small area open.


Cook in the microwave on a full power for three minutes, then remove and check the fish. Turn the fish so that the cooked parts are in the centre of the dish. Cook on full power for another one minute until pale pink and cooked. Leave to stand.


Put the margarine into the microwave-safe jug and place in the microwave. Cook on full power for 30 seconds.


Remove the jug from the microwave, tip in the flour and whisk until it is blended thoroughly.


Carefully pull back the cling film from the microwave-safe dish and remove two tablespoons of the milk. Add it to the flour and margarine and whisk to form a smooth paste with no lumps.


Continue to add the milk, a few spoonfuls at a time, and whisk until all the milk has been added. Keep covering the salmon with the cling film to keep it warm.


Place the jug into the microwave and cook on full power for 3-4 minutes, removing the jug to whisk thoroughly at one minute intervals. This will ensure there are no lumps.


After 3–4 minutes, the sauce should boil, but be careful it does not spill over the sides of the jug.


Once boiled, carefully remove the jug from the microwave and whisk thoroughly. Add the lemon juice and a grind of black pepper (if using) – and whisk.


Either pour the sauce over the fish or, using a fish slice, remove the fish to individual plates and spoon over the sauce.



