

Hot smoked salmon, beetroot salad and horseradish crème fraîche




Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
30 mins to 1 hour


Serves
Serves 4


Recommended by
6 people



This easy salad requires only a little cooking, but tastes sensational. If you can't find fresh horseradish, you can add fresh dill to a jar of ready-made horseradish cream.






By Raymond Blanc


From Raymond Blanc's Kitchen Secrets






Ingredients
For the salmon and beetroot salad

480g/17oz mixed beetroot such as Candy, Bull's Blood and Golden, washed, leaves reserved (see below)
2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
2 tsp aged balsamic vinegar
30g/1½oz shallot, peeled, finely sliced
4 pinches sea salt
2 pinches freshly ground black pepper

For the horseradish crème fraîche

100g/3½oz crème fraîche
1 tsp finely grated fresh horseradish
2 tbsp chopped fresh dill
2 pinches sea salt

To serve

120g/4½oz hot smoked salmon, such as bradon rost, flesh roughly flaked
2 tbsp chopped fresh dill
1 small handful fresh beetroot leaves, or other baby leaves




Method


For the beetroot salad, bring a large pan of water with a tight fitting lid to the boil, place a steamer insert on top. Add the beetroot, cover the pan and steam for 35-40 minutes, or until tender. (The beetroot is cooked through when a knife inserted into the centre meets no resistance.)


Remove the beetroot and set aside to cool slightly before peeling (you may wish to wear gloves when you peel the beetroot to prevent your hands from staining). Slice the beetroot into bite-sized pieces (about 0.5cm/½in thick), then place into a bowl with the olive oil, balsamic vinegar and shallot. Mix well, then season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper.


For the horseradish crème fraîche, mix all of the horseradish crème fraîche ingredients together, taste, and adjust the seasoning, if required.


To serve, divide the beetroot salad among 4 serving plates, scatter the salmon over the top and sprinkle over a little chopped dill. Arrange some fresh beetroot leaves on the side. Spoon the horseradish crème fraîche into small serving bowls and serve alongside.



