

Velvet chocolate torte






You need JavaScript to view this clip.






Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
over 2 hours


Serves
Serves 10


Recommended by
27 people


Dietary

 
Vegetarian




Yes it really does serve ten, it is so rich! If you do not have a spring-form tin, spoon the mixture into a freezer-safe shallow dish, cover with cling film, then freeze. You can make half the quantity if you prefer, or simply cut off and thaw the amount you wish to serve and leave the rest in the freezer.

  Equipment and preparation: you will need a 20cm/8in loose-bottomed or spring-form tin.






By Mary Berry


From Food & Drink






Ingredients

200g/7oz plain chocolate
100g/3½oz caster sugar
4 free-range egg yolks
2 tbsp brandy
570ml/1 pint double cream

To decorate

icing sugar, sifted
12 large strawberries, sliced
single cream




Method


Line a 20cm/8in loose-bottomed or spring-form tin with cling film and oil the film.


Break the chocolate into pieces and drop into a food processor. Blend for one minute or until just a few pieces remain in the otherwise powdery chocolate. Alternatively finely grate the chocolate.


Measure the sugar into a small pan with 90ml/3fl oz of water and heat gently over a low heat until the sugar has dissolved, stirring occasionally. Turn up the heat and boil briskly for 3-4 minutes, or until it becomes a thin syrup. Set the processor running and pour in the hot syrup through the funnel onto the chocolate so that it melts and becomes liquid. Add just a little more boiling water if some unmelted chocolate remains. Add the egg yolks and process for a few seconds before adding the brandy. If you are not using a processor, beat the ingredients together.


In a separate bowl, beat the cream to a soft floppy consistency, then fold in the chocolate mixture. Spread in the prepared tin, levelling the top with the back of a spoon, then cover with cling film and transfer to the freezer for a minimum of four hours to freeze.


To serve, remove from the freezer, release from tin and transfer to a plate. Allow to soften a little and serve about 20 minutes after coming out of the freezer. Decorate with the strawberries and icing sugar and serve with a little cream.



