

Venison tartare with celeriac remoulade, chestnuts and juniper toast



Preparation time
less than 30 mins


Cooking time
less than 10 mins


Serves
Serves 4



This posh seasonal starter wouldn't look out of place in an upmarket restaurant, so it will certainly wow at home.






By Adam Byatt


From Christmas Kitchen with James Martin






Ingredients
For the toast

100g/3½oz sourdough bread, thinly sliced
drizzle olive oil
5 dried juniper berries, crushed

For the dressing

1 garlic clove
40ml/1½fl oz white wine vinegar
15 drops Tabasco
20g/¾oz Dijon mustard
40g/1½oz tomato ketchup
3 silver anchovy fillets (boquerones)
1 dried juniper berry

For the remoulade

1 small celeriac
3-4 tbsp salt
100ml/3½fl oz crème fraîche
1 tsp wholegrain mustard

For the venison tartare

400g/14oz venison loin, fat trimmed, finely diced
1 large shallot, diced
½ bunch fresh flatleaf parsley, leaves chopped
50g/2oz cornichons, drained, diced
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the garnish

4 quail egg yolks (reserve half of each shell to serve)
2 large fresh chestnuts, cooked, peeled and sliced




Method


For the toast, preheat the grill to a medium setting.


Grill the sourdough slices for 1-2 minutes. Turn over and drizzle with olive oil. Sprinkle over the crushed juniper berries. Toast for 2 minutes or until golden-brown. Keep warm.


For the dressing, blend all of the dressing ingredients to a smooth purée in a food processor. Set aside until needed.


For the remoulade, peel the celeriac and cut the flesh into thin strips, sprinkling the strips with salt as you go to prevent it from discolouring and to absorb any moisture. Set aside for 3 minutes.


Wash the julienned celeriac under a cold running tap, then drain. Transfer to a large mixing bowl. Stir in the mustard and crème fraîche until well combined. Chill in the fridge until needed.


For the venison tartare, in a bowl, mix together the diced venison, shallot, parsley and cornichons. Pour over the dressing and mix until well combined, Season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper, then mix again.


To serve, place one ring mould onto each of 4 serving plates. Divide the venison tartare equally among the ring moulds, pressing the meat down into the sides of the mould. Twist a helping of the celeriac remoulade around a fork and place it alongside the venison. Add a slice or two of toast and top each venison tartare with a half eggshell containing a quail egg yolk. Finally, garnish each plate with the chestnut slices.



