Title: Ginger scallops with Chinese greens chiu chow noodles in sesame sauce
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 4
Author: Ken Hom

Ingredients:

For the ginger scallops with Chinese greens

1 tbsp groundnut oil
1½ tbsp finely chopped fresh ginger
1 tbsp finely chopped garlic
2 tbsp finely chopped spring onions
450g/1lb scallops, including the roes
1 tbsp Shaoxing rice wine or dry sherry
2 tsp light soy sauce
1 tsp sugar
½ tsp salt
½ tsp freshly ground white pepper
1 tbsp groundnut oil
2 tbsp garlic, thinly sliced
700g/1½lb Chinese greens, such as Chinese flowering cabbage or bok choi, cut into 7.5cm/3in pieces
2 tsp sesame oil

For the chiu chow noodles

225g/8oz dried e-fu noodles or dried egg noodles
2 tbsp sesame oil

For the sesame sauce

4 tbsp sesame paste or peanut butter
1 tbsp dark soy sauce
2 tbsp light soy sauce
2 tsp sugar
225ml/8fl oz chicken stock
½ tsp salt
freshly ground white pepper, to taste

Instructions:
For the ginger scallops with Chinese greens, heat a wok or large frying-pan over high heat until it is hot. Add the oil, and when it is very hot and slightly smoking, add the ginger, garlic and spring onions and stir-fry for 10 seconds. Immediately add the scallops and stir-fry them for 1 minute.
Add the rice wine, soy sauce, sugar, salt, and pepper. Continue to stir-fry for 2 minutes, remove the scallops from the wok with any sauce and set aside.
For the chiu chow noodles, in a large pot of boiling salted water, blanch the noodles for 2 minutes or until they are barely soft. Drain well and toss immediately with sesame oil and arrange on a serving platter.
Mix all the sesame sauce ingredients together in a small pot and bring to a simmer. Allow the sauce to cool slightly and toss with the noodles. Serve at once.
To finish the scallops, wipe the wok clean, add the groundnut oil and heat over high heat. When it is very hot and slightly smoking, add the sliced garlic and stir-fry for 10 seconds. Add the Chinese greens and stir-fry for 3 minutes or until the greens have wilted a little.
Return the scallops to the wok and continue to stir-fry for 3 minutes. Now add the sesame oil and stir-fry for another minute. Serve at once.
