Title: Lamb shank with garlic, rosemary and flageolet beans
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: Over 2 hours
Serves: 4
Author: Antony Worrall Thompson

Ingredients:

For the lamb shanks

4 lamb shanks
6 tinned anchovies, cut into halves
12 small rosemary sprigs
12 slivers garlic
salt and freshly ground black pepper
55g/2oz duck fat, butter or dripping
2 carrots, roughly chopped
2 sticks celery, roughly chopped
1 leek, roughly chopped
2 onions, roughly chopped
1 head garlic, broken up into cloves
1 sprig thyme
1 sprig rosemary
1 bay leaf
½ bottle red wine
600ml/1 pint chicken or lamb stock or water

For the sauce

2 tbsp extra virgin olive oil
115g/4oz streaky bacon lardons, blanched
1 carrot, finely diced
1 stick celery, finely diced
1 onion, finely diced
6 cloves garlic, peeled
2 sprigs thyme
2 sprigs rosemary, chopped
4 tomatoes, seeded and diced
2 x 375g/13oz tins flageolet beans, drained and rinsed

For the gremolata

3 cloves garlic, chopped
5 tbsp chopped fresh parsley
2 lemons, grated zest only
To serve

2 tbsp grated parmesan

Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 140C/275F/Gas 1.
For the lamb shanks, first remove the majority of fat from the shanks. Make three deep incisions in each shank and insert in each half an anchovy wrapped around a sprig of rosemary and a slice of garlic. Season the meat with salt and freshly ground black pepper - you will not need too much salt as the anchovies are very salty.
Heat a little duck fat, butter or dripping in a casserole, add the shanks and brown all over. Remove and set aside.
To the casserole, add the carrots, celery, leek, onions, garlic cloves and herbs and cook over a high heat until the vegetables are browned.
Deglaze the casserole by adding the red wine, scraping the residue on the bottom of the pan and stirring well.
Add the stock or water to the casserole, place the shanks on top of the vegetables, cover and cook in the oven for two and a half hours.
When the lamb has finished cooking, remove the four shanks to a dish and keep warm. Pass the vegetables and cooking liquor through a mouli, or blend in a food processor, and set to one side.
For the sauce, heat the oil in a large pan over a medium to high heat. Add the bacon and fry until browned. Reduce the heat and add the carrot, celery, onion and garlic.
Cook for eight minutes until the vegetables have softened then add the thyme, rosemary, tomatoes and flageolet beans. Heat through.
Pass the blended lamb cooking liquor and vegetables through a strainer or fine sieve onto the bean mixture, stir together and pour over the lamb shanks.
Mix the gremolata ingredients together to make the gremolata.
Serve the lamb garnished with the gremolata and parmesan.
