Title: Lobster thermidor and Caesar salad
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 4
Author: James Martin

Ingredients:

For the lobster

2 x 750g/1½lb lobster, cooked
25g/1oz butter
1 shallot, peeled and finely chopped
3 tbsp brandy
2 tbsp white wine
150ml/5fl oz fish stock
110ml/4fl oz double cream
½ tsp English mustard
2 tbsp chopped fresh flatleaf parsley
½ lemon, juice only
sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
25g/1oz grated parmesan

For the salad

2 garlic cloves, peeled
150ml/6fl oz white wine
1 tbsp Dijon mustard
4 free-range egg yolks
3 anchovy fillets, roughly chopped
150ml/6fl oz extra virgin olive oil, plus extra for frying
150ml/6fl oz rapeseed oil
freshly ground black pepper
2 thick slices country bread, cut into 2cm/¾in cubes
1 head romaine lettuce, roughly chopped
4 tbsp chopped fresh flatleaf parsley
4 tbsp grated parmesan

Instructions:
Cut the lobster in half using a sharp knife. Remove the meat from the claws, tail and head and set aside. Chop the lobster meat into bitesize pieces and place back into the shell.
Heat the butter in a heavy-based frying pan and fry the shallots until softened.
Pour in the brandy, wine, stock and double cream. Bring to the boil and cook until reduced by half. Stir in the mustard, herbs and lemon juice to the sauce. Season to taste with sea salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Preheat the grill to high.
Spoon the sauce over the lobster meat and sprinkle with the grated parmesan. Place onto a tray and under the grill for 3-4 minutes, or until golden-brown and bubbling.
For the salad, place the garlic and white wine into a small pan and bring to the boil. Simmer for five minutes until the garlic is just softened.
Remove the pan from the heat and add the mustard, egg yolks and anchovies. Mix until well combined.
Blend the mixture using a hand blender or a food processor until smooth. Transfer the mixture to a bowl and gradually whisk in the two oils until emulsified. Season with freshly ground black pepper and set aside.
Place the bread cubes into a bowl with the olive oil, rosemary, salt and black pepper and mix until well combined. Heat a frying pan until hot, add the croutons in batches and cook for 2-3 minutes, turning frequently, until golden-brown and crispy.
Mix the leaves and parsley with the croutons, dressing and parmesan. Serve the lobster on a plate alongside the salad, finishing with a little extra dressing.
