Title: Pan-fried salmon with chilli and green bean salad
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 4
Author: James Martin

Ingredients:

For the salmon

4 x 175g/6oz salmon fillet
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tbsp olive oil
25g/1oz butter
1 lemon, juice only
200g/7oz green beans
4 tbsp chopped fresh coriander leaves
4 tbsp chopped fresh mint leaves
½ coconut, flesh finely sliced

For the chilli sauce

75g/3oz caster sugar
2 red chillies, roughly chopped
3 plum tomatoes, roughly chopped
8 lime leaves
2 lemongrass stalks, tough outer leaves removed, finely chopped
25g/1oz roughly chopped fresh root ginger
2 garlic cloves, peeled, left whole
2 small shallots, roughly chopped
4 tbsp Thai fish sauce (nam pla)
40ml/1½fl oz sesame oil
50ml/2fl oz dark soy sauce
2 tbsp clear honey
3 limes, juice and zest

Instructions:
For the salmon, season the salmon with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Heat a frying pan until hot, add the oil and butter and heat until foaming.
Add the salmon, presentation-side down, then cook for 2-3 minutes, or until the salmon is half cooked.
Turn the salmon over then turn the heat off and remove the pan from the heat. Set aside and leave to rest for 3-4 minutes (the residual heat finishes cooking the salmon). Squeeze the lemon juice over the salmon.
Bring a pan of salted water to the boil, add the beans and cook for 3-4 minutes, or until just cooked, then drain and refresh in cold water. Drain once more and place into a bowl.
Add the coriander and mint leaves and the coconut and toss together.
For the chilli sauce, heat the sugar in a heavy-based saucepan over a low-medium heat until it melts and forms a golden-brown caramel. Do not stir and keep an eye on it so that it doesn’t burn.
Meanwhile, blend all of the remaining chilli jam ingredients in a food processor to a smooth purée.
Once the sugar has caramelised, pour in the puréed chilli jam mixture and stir well.
Bring the mixture to the boil, then reduce the heat and simmer for 4-5 minutes, or until sticky and jam-like.
Remove from the heat and set aside to cool.
To serve, toss some of the chilli sauce with the salad, just enough to lightly coat the salad.
Place the salad into the centre of serving plates then top with a piece of salmon. Drizzle over a little more chilli sauce.
