Title: Peppered steak with roasted asparagus, 'drunken' potatoes, roasted tomatoes and mustard sauce
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 1
Author: Lesley Waters

Ingredients:

For the peppered steak

150g/5½oz sirloin steak
1 tbsp olive oil
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
1 tsp black peppercorns, cracked in a pestle and mortar

For the roasted asparagus and tomatoes

1 bunch asparagus, trimmed
2 tomatoes, halved
3 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tsp caster sugar

For the 'drunken' potatoes

1 tbsp olive oil
25g/1oz butter
100g/3½oz Anya potatoes, sliced into 1cm/½in thick slices
75ml/2½fl oz white wine
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the mustard sauce

75ml/2½fl oz white wine
1 tsp Dijon mustard
75ml/2½fl oz double cream

Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.
For the peppered steak, rub the steak with the oil and press the chopped garlic and cracked pepper onto one side. Heat a griddle pan until smoking hot and sear the beef on both sides, then transfer the pan to the oven to continue cooking for about five minutes, or until cooked to your liking. Remove from the oven and leave to rest in a warm place.
For the roasted asparagus and tomatoes, place the asparagus and tomatoes onto a baking sheet and drizzle over the olive oil. Season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Sprinkle the sugar over the tomatoes. Place in the oven to roast for about 6-7 minutes, or until tender.
For the 'drunken' potatoes, heat the oil and butter in an ovenproof frying pan and fry the potato slices until they start to colour. Add the wine and season, to taste, with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Transfer the pan to the oven for about 5-7 minutes, or until the potatoes are tender.
For the mustard sauce, heat the wine in a small pan and simmer until reduced by half. Stir in the mustard and cream and bring to a simmer.
To serve, place the 'drunken' potatoes onto a serving plate. Slice the beef and arrange on top, followed by the asparagus and tomatoes. Drizzle over the mustard sauce.
