Title: Potato and carrot cake with steak tagliata and balsamic glaze
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 1
Author: Gino D'Acampo

Ingredients:

For the potato and carrot cake

2 carrots, peeled and chopped
150g/5oz new potatoes, chopped
400ml/14fl oz vegetable stock
1 tsp chilli flakes
2 tbsp olive oil
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
2 free-range eggs, beaten
100g/3½oz plain flour
salt and freshly ground black pepper

For the steak tagliata

125g/4½oz sirloin steak
1 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp honey
1 tsp sesame seeds

For the balsamic glaze

2 tbsp brandy
200ml/7fl oz balsamic vinegar
1 tbsp honey
1 tbsp sesame seeds
To serve

1 tbsp chopped fresh parsley, to serve

Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 180C/350F/Gas 4.
For the potato and carrot pie, place the carrots, potatoes, stock and half the chilli flakes in a saucepan and bring to the boil. Reduce the heat and leave to simmer for 7-8 minutes, then drain and set aside.
Heat a frying pan with the olive oil and fry the potatoes and carrots along with the chopped garlic for 3-4 minutes.
In a large bowl combine the eggs, flour, the rest of the chilli flakes and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Mix well, then stir in the fried potato and carrot mix.
Grease the sides of a 10cm/4in deep metal ring mould on a baking sheet and spoon the mixture inside, pressing down. Place in the oven for 5-6 minutes, or until the top is golden-brown. Remove the pie from the mould by running a knife around the edge and carefully easing it out on to a warm serving plate.
For the tagliata, preheat a grill pan until hot, rub the steak with the oil and place in the pan. Drizzle over the honey, sprinkle over the sesame seeds and cook the meat for 2-3 minutes on each side, or until cooked to your liking. Remove from the pan to rest.
For the balsamic glaze, pour the brandy into the pan to deglaze, then add the balsamic vinegar and cook on a high heat for five minutes until the liquid has reduced to a thick glaze. Stir in the honey and sesame seeds.
To serve, slice the steak thickly and serve on top of the potato and carrot cake, with the balsamic glaze drizzled around the sides. Garnish with the chopped parsley and serve.
