Title: Rockefeller cod with fennel salad and a classic white wine sauce
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 30 mins to 1 hour
Serves: 4
Author: James Martin

Ingredients:

For the cod

50g/2oz unsalted butter
100g/3½oz spinach, washed and dried
2 tbsp chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley
5 tbsp fresh breadcrumbs
2 tbsp grated hard cheese, such as parmesan
olive oil, for frying
4 thick cod fillets

For the white wine sauce

50g/2oz unsalted butter
2 shallots, finely chopped
1 garlic clove, finely chopped
200ml/7fl oz white wine
200ml/7fl oz fish stock
200ml/7fl oz double cream

For the fennel salad

2 bulbs fennel, finely sliced
2 carrots, thinly sliced at an angle
½ cucumber, finely sliced
½ red onion, finely chopped
½ bunch fresh dill, finely chopped
1 lemon, juice only
salt and freshly ground black pepper
2 tbsp olive oil

Instructions:
Preheat the oven to 220C/450F/Gas 7.
For the cod, heat a frying pan until hot, add half the butter and all the spinach. Cook until the spinach is just wilted. Transfer the spinach to a colander and press remove any excess water. Allow to cool slightly and chop finely.
In a bowl mix the chopped spinach with the parsley, breadcrumbs and grated cheese.
Heat a large ovenproof frying pan and add the remaining butter. When the butter has melted, add the cod, skin-side down. Fry for 2-3 minutes, or until the skin is crisp.
Top the cod with the spinach and breadcrumb mixture, and place in the oven for 5-7 minutes.
For the white wine sauce, heat a frying pan and add the butter. Once melted add the shallots and fry for 2-3 minutes. Add the garlic and cook for a further two minutes. Pour in the wine and stock, then bring to the boil. Cook until the volume of the liquid has reduced by half. Remove from the heat and stir through the cream.
For the fennel salad, mix the fennel, carrots, cucumber, red onion, dill and lemon juice in a bowl until well combined. Season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper and drizzle with olive oil.
To serve, divide the fennel salad between four serving plates and place a fillet of cod on top. Pour the white wine sauce over the cod.
