Title: Seared squid, chorizo and chickpea purée
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 4
Author: Paul Merrett

Ingredients:

For the chickpea purée

1 x 400g/14oz can chickpeas, drained, rinsed
2 tsp ground cumin
pinch chilli flakes
2 garlic cloves, peeled, crushed to a paste with the edge of a knife
150ml/5fl oz extra virgin olive oil
salt, to taste

For the yoghurt dip

2 tbsp Greek-style yoghurt
1 heaped tbsp chopped fresh coriander

For the squid and chorizo

1-2 tbsp olive oil
500g/1lb 2oz squid, washed, patted dry, beaks and quills removed, tubes cut into rings 0.5cm/¼in thick
250g/7oz cooking chorizo, sliced diagonally
12 cherry tomatoes, cut in half
½ lemon, juice only
To serve

100g/3½oz salad leaves, such as pea shoots, rocket or watercress leaves

Instructions:
For the chickpea purée, place the chickpeas, cumin, chilli flakes and one of the garlic cloves into a food processor.
With the motor running, gradually add the olive oil in a thin stream and blend until the mixture is smooth and well combined. Season, to taste, with salt. Cover and chill in the fridge until needed.
For the yoghurt dip, in a bowl, mix together the Greek-style yoghurt and chopped coriander until well combined. Cover and chill in the fridge until needed.
For the squid and chorizo, heat the oil in a large, non-reactive frying pan over a high heat. Add the chorizo and fry for 3-4 minutes, or until dark golden-brown, then remove from the pan and set aside.
Drain the chorizo-infused oil from the pan and reserve.
Add the squid rings to the pan the chorizo was cooked in and stir fry for 3-4 minutes, or until just opaque.
Add the cooked chorizo, tomatoes and the remaining crushed clove of garlic to the pan and continue to stir fry for a further minute, or until the squid rings are pale golden-brown. (NB: Take care not to overcook the squid or it will be chewy.)
Add a little of the reserved chorizo-infused oil, to taste, and the lemon juice and stir to combine. Remove from the heat.
To serve, place a dollop of the chickpea purée into the centre of each of four serving plates. Dot the squid and chorizo mixture around the chickpea purée. Place a teaspoonful of the coriander yoghurt alongside. Serve with the salad leaves.
