Title: Black pudding with scallops and shrimp butter, with pea and radish shoot salad
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 1
Author: Paul Rankin

Ingredients:

For the shrimp butter

2 oranges, juice only
muscle trimmings from 3 scallops (see below)
15g/½oz caster sugar
3 tbsp shrimps
salt and freshly ground black pepper
25g/1oz butter

For the black pudding

¼ tsp ground mace
¼ tsp ground paprika
2 tbsp plain flour
salt and freshly ground black pepper
3 thick slices ready-made black pudding
1 tbsp olive oil

For the scallops

3 scallops, coral and muscle removed
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 tbsp olive oil
15g/½oz butter

For the pea and radish shoot salad

½ orange, juice only
½ lemon, juice only
2 tbsp olive oil
salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 small handful fresh pea shoots
1 small handful fresh purple radish sprouts
3 fresh chives, to serve

Instructions:
For the shrimp butter, place the orange juice and scallop muscles in a small saucepan and bring to the boil. Skim off any foam, then stir in the sugar.
Blend two tablespoons of the shrimps in a food processor to form a paste, then add this to the pan with the orange juice, and continue to heat for a further 2-3 minutes. Pass the sauce through a sieve to remove the scallop muscles, return the liquid to the pan, and season to taste with salt and freshly ground black pepper.
Stir in the butter and the remaining tablespoon of shrimps and continue cooking for 1-2 minutes until the butter has melted and the shrimps have warmed through.
For the black pudding, combine the mace, paprika, flour and seasoning in a bowl and press the black pudding slices into this mixture to coat, shaking off any excess. Heat the oil in a frying pan over a medium heat and fry the coated black pudding for 2-3 minutes on each side.
For the scallops, season the scallops with salt and freshly ground black pepper. Heat the oil and butter in a separate frying pan over a high heat. When the butter is foaming, add the scallops and cook for 1-2 minutes on each side, or until they are golden brown and crisp.
For the pea and radish shoot salad, mix the orange and lemon juice, olive oil and seasoning in a bowl until well combined. Add the pea shoots and radish sprouts and toss them in the vinaigrette to coat.
To serve, pile the shoot salad onto a serving plate and alternate the scallops and black pudding slices around the edge of the plate. Drizzle the shrimp butter over the scallops and black pudding, then garnish with fresh chives.
