Title: Spicy crab cakes with red pepper mayonnaise and Thai-style noodle salad
Prep time: Less than 30 mins
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 2
Author: The Scarfs Family

Ingredients:

For the mayonnaise

4 tbsp mayonnaise
1 roasted red pepper from a jar, finely chopped
1 lemon, finely grated zest only
salt

For the dressing

1 bunch basil, roughly torn leaves only
1 tbsp chopped mint
250ml/9fl oz canned coconut milk
1 tbsp freshly grated ginger
2 garlic cloves , finely chopped
1 lime, juice only
2 spring onions, finely chopped
pinch salt
pinch cayenne pepper

For the crab cakes

4-5 slices white bread
1 small bunch parsley, finely chopped leaves only
1 large free-range egg yolk
2 tsp lemon juice
2 tsp Worcestershire sauce
few drops Tabasco sauce
2½ tbsp Dijon mustard
½ tsp paprika
sprig thyme, leaves only
pinch of celery seeds
freshly ground black pepper
3 tbsp olive oil
1 small onion, finely chopped
3 red peppers, seeds removed, flesh finely chopped
1 green pepper, seeds removed, flesh finely chopped
500g/1lb 2oz fresh white crabmeat
2 tbsp butter

For the noodles

200g/7oz rice noodles
1 carrot, cut into thin strips
8-10 asparagus spears, cut into 4cm/1½in pieces
1 red pepper, cut into thin strips
110g/4oz mangetout
110g/4oz baby sweetcorn, halved lengthways
110g/4oz beansprouts
To garnish

1 lime, cut into wedges
50g/2oz roasted peanuts, roughly chopped
1 tbsp fresh coriander leaves

Instructions:
For the mayonnaise, mix all of the mayonnaise ingredients together with a pinch of salt. Set aside.
For the dressing, combine all of the dressing ingredients together in a bowl and season with salt and cayenne pepper. Set aside.
For the crab cakes, place the bread and half the parsley into a food processor and blend to coarse crumbs. Tip the crumbs into a bowl.
Now put the egg yolk, lemon juice, Worcestershire sauce, Tabasco, mustard, paprika, thyme, celery seeds and a generous grinding of black pepper into the food processor and pulse to combine, adding the oil as you go to make a sauce.
Transfer the sauce to a large mixing bowl and add the onion, peppers, crabmeat, remaining parsley and half of the parsley breadcrumbs. Mix lightly to just combine then take handfuls of the mixture and shape into 1cm/½in-thick crab cakes. Coat the crab cakes in the remaining parsley breadcrumbs and set aside.
Melt the butter in a large heavy-based frying pan over a medium heat. When the butter is foaming, add the crab cakes and cook for 4-5 minutes on each side, or until crisp and golden and cooked through. Keep warm until ready to serve.
For the noodles, cook the noodles according to packet instructions then drain and plunge into cold water then drain again. Bring a pan of water to the boil and boil all the vegetables together for 2-3 minutes or until just tender but still crisp. Drain, plunge into cold water and drain again.
When ready to serve, toss the noodles and vegetables together with the dressing. Garnish with lime wedges, peanuts and coriander. Arrange the salad on serving plates with the warm crab cakes and red pepper mayonnaise alongside.
