Title: Chicken, potato and chickpea curry with basmati rice
Prep time: 1-2 hours
Cook time: 10 to 30 mins
Serves: 4
Author: Paul Rankin

Ingredients:

For the chicken

4 chicken breasts, chopped into 2cm/1in pieces
2cm/1in fresh root ginger, finely chopped
5 garlic cloves, finely chopped
2 tbsp vegetable oil, plus extra for frying the chicken

For the basmati rice

400g/14¼oz basmati rice, washed and soaked in cold water for at least 30 minutes
600ml/1 pint 1½fl oz water

For the curry

2 tbsp vegetable oil
1 large onion, finely sliced
4 garlic cloves, finely chopped
5cm/2in fresh root ginger, finely chopped
2 tbsp mild Madras curry powder
200ml/7¼fl oz coconut milk
200ml/7¼fl oz chicken stock
1 x 400g/14¼oz can chopped tomatoes
2 large potatoes, peeled and roughly chopped into large chunks
1 x 400g/14¼oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed
handful fresh coriander, finely chopped

Instructions:
For the chicken, combine the chicken, ginger, garlic and vegetable oil in a shallow non-reactive dish. Cover and leave in the fridge to marinate for at least one hour.
For the basmati rice, place the rice into a pan with a lid. Add the water and bring to the boil over a medium heat with the lid on. Once boiling, reduce to a simmer and cook for 8-10 minutes. Remove from the heat and leave to stand for at least 10 minutes before serving.
Meanwhile, for the curry, heat the oil in a large pan over a medium heat. Add the onion and cook for 10 minutes, or until the onion has softened and has taken on some colour. Add the garlic and ginger and cook for a further five minutes. Add the curry powder and cook for two minutes.
Stir in the coconut milk, chicken stock and tomatoes. Bring to the boil and add the potatoes. Simmer for about 10 minutes, or until the potatoes are just tender. Add the chickpeas and bring back to the boil. Simmer for two minutes.
To cook the chicken, heat a splash of oil in a frying pan over a high heat. Cook the chicken on all sides until golden-brown and cooked through. Reserve the chicken, covered, in a warm place until ready to serve.
To serve, place generous amounts of the curry and chicken onto the rice on plates. Garnish with the chopped coriander.
